The gambiense human African trypanosomiasis ( gHAT , sleeping sickness ) is a fatal vector-borne disease , which is transmitted by tsetse to humans . In the last two decades , the intensification of intervention activities against the fatal vector borne disease has led to a large decline in the number of annually reported cases . However , pockets of infection remain , and it becomes increasingly important to quantitatively assess if different regions are on track for elimination and where intervention efforts should be focused . We present a previously developed stochastic mathematical model for ghaT in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( DRC ) and show that this same formulation is able to capture the dynamics of gHAT observed at the health area level ( approximately 10 , 000 people ) . The spatial heterogeneity in cases is reflected in modelling results , where we predict that under the current intervention strategies , Kwilu II , who has approximately one third of the health zone’s cases , will have the latest expected year for EoT . This suggests that expanding health area fitting , to cover more of the DRC should be done with deterministic fits for efficiency , but with stocchastic projections used to capture both the parameter and stochistic variation in case reporting and elimination year estimations .
Tumor microenvironments ( TMEs ) contain vast amounts of information on patient's cancer through their cellular composition and the spatial distribution of tumor cells and immune cell populations . Moreover , in the face of a large number of cell interactions to consider , we often wish to identify specific interactions that are useful in making such predictions . We present an approach to achieve these goals based on summarizing spatial relationships in the TME using spatial K functions , and then applying functional data analysis and random forest models to both predict outcomes of interest and identify important spatial relationships . This approach is shown to be effective in simulation experiments at both identifying important spatial interactions while also controlling the false discovery rate .
In Parkinson’s disease , abnormally strong neural synchronization may impair brain function , as observed in several brain disorders . To investigate the impact of different types of plasticity mechanisms , we combine a network of excitatory integrate-and-fire ( LIF ) neurons with different synaptic weight and/or structural plasticity ( SP ) mechanisms: ( i ) only spike-timing-dependent plasticity , ( STDP ) , and ( I ) no weight-dependent pruning and without SP . We compare the stimulation-induced desynchronization of synchronized states in the STDP-only model with the dissociation of random networks with frozen structures . The latter require stimuli of significantly higher intensity to achieve long-term desynchrony . In particular , the strengthening of contacts from neurons with higher natural firing rates to those with lower rates and the weakening of contacts in the opposite direction , followed by selective removal of weak contacts , allows for strong synchrony with fewer connections than in randomly structured networks in the STN . Our findings may inform future pre-clinical and clinical studies with invasive or non-invasive stimulus modalities aiming at inducing long-lasting relief of symptoms , e . g . in Parkinson’S disease .
In some animals , regeneration of their nervous system is a major challenge . Because injuries are unpredictable , the regeneration must be accomplished from an unlimited number of starting points . In planarians , neurons and glia are regenerated from distinct progenitors . We found that planarian neurons first regenerate neurons expressing a Delta-encoding gene , delta-2 , at key positions in the central and peripheral nervous systems . Loss of several delta-2-expressing neuron classes prevented differentiation of the glial cells associated with them , whereas transplantation of delta-1-expressing photoreceptor neurons was sufficient for glio formation at an ectopic location . Our results suggest a model in which patterned expression of a delta protein in particular neurons interacts with dispersed phagocytic progenitor cells to accomplish coordinated regeneration of neuron-glia architecture .
In humans , the most common subset in peripheral blood is defined by expression of the V2 chain and recognizes non-peptide phosphoantigens produced by some bacteria and protozoa such as Plasmodium falciparum . In addition , they share features with other innate like T cells , such as activation by cytokines in the absence of TCR signal or by activating receptors usually associated with NK cell functions .  T cells have been reported to have anti-HIV activity by producing -chemokines that can block HIV-1 replication . Here , we characterized early gamma-delta (  ) T cell responses starting from pre-acquisition and during acute HIV infection ( AHI ) in RV217 individuals previously identified as 'broad' and 'non-broad ' neutralizers , and determined their relationship with viral replication as well as bNAb elicitation . Expression of CD16 on V1+ T cells and CD57 on V>2+T cells were found to be significantly higher in broad neutralizer than those that did not . We found significant differences in T cell surface marker expression in participants that developed neutralization breadth and were significantly associated with early production of founder virus Env-specific IgM , which has implications for HIV vaccine strategies .
Bispecific antibodies ( BsAbs ) , which combine two different antigen-binding sites into one molecule , are a promising modality for drug development due to their enhanced avidity and dual targeting effects . However , most current anti-cancer drugs are designed to arrest or reverse tumor growth without directly addressing disease spread . We present detailed simulations of the monovalent and bivalent binding interactions between different antibody constructs and the IL-6 and IL-8 receptors to establish how antibody properties and system conditions impact the formation of binary ( antibody-receptor ) and ternary ( receptor-antibody-recognition ) complexes . Our model results demonstrate how the balance of these complex types drives receptor inhibition , providing important and generalizable predictions for effective therapeutic design .
Microtubules are a key component of cell division , but how they are organized and maintained is poorly understood . In C . elegans oocytes , microtubuli are sorted outwards away from the chromosomes where they form poles; then these outward forces must be balanced to form a stable bipolar structure . Here , we have gained insight into this question through studies of ZYG-8 , a conserved doublecortin-family kinase , which is upregulated in many cancers and has been implicated in cell division and is a major contributor to cell division in many species . We found that depletion of this protein led to excess force within the spindle and suggested a potential role for this protein in regulating the force-generating motor BMK-1/kinesin-5 . Furthermore , experiments with monopolar spindles revealed that ZYg-8 depleTION led to overelongated spindLES with pole and midspindle defects . Altogether , our findings reveal new roles for ZY G-8 in octopuses and provide insights into how acentrosomal spindletons are stabilized to promote faithful meiosis .
Type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) is a common , complex disease , with a prevalence that is expected to increase dramatically , and for which the genetics has been largely described through genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) studies . We investigated the interplay between genetics , metabolomics , as well as the genetic regulation of metabolite levels and their genetic regulation in the UK Biobank dataset using the Nightingale panel composed of 249 metabolites , 92% of which correspond to lipids ( HDL , IDL , LDL and VLDL ) and lipoproteins . Twice as many metabolities are causally affected by T2d liability , covering almost all tested classes , including branched-chain amino acids , suggesting biological mechanisms specific to the occurrence of complications . Overall , this study provides a map of the consequences of T2C on Nightingalale targeted metabolises and on their gene regulation , leading to a better understanding of the T2-D trajectory leading to complications , for which underlying biological mechanisms are still to be unraveled .
The pathogen Staphylococcus aureus is a major cause of concern because it spreads easily and can cause opportunistic infections , ranging from mild skin infections to severe life-threatening conditions . In this work we identified two genes , C5ar1 and C5r2 , that are receptors for the complement factor C5a , an anaphylatoxin that can trigger a massive immune response by binding to these receptors . Survival after MRSA infection in the F1 and F2 generations was 65 % and 55% and followed a complex dominant inheritance pattern for the CC024 phenotype . We hypothesized that C5A may have altered binding to variant receptors in CC024 mice and resulting in the ability to tolerate a higher pathogen burden and longer survival . Colonization in F2 animals was more extreme than in their parents , suggesting successful segregation of genetic factors .
The tempo and mode of adaptation depends on the availability of beneficial alleles . However , the extent to which networks affect adaptation remains largely unknown . We use forward-time genetic simulations to measure adaptive walks towards a phenotypic optimum in both additive and network models . Our results suggest that the interactions emerging from gene networks can generate complex and multimodal distributions of fitness effects . This behavior is reminiscent of the cost of complexity , where correlations among traits constrain adaptation .
A fundamental function of cortical circuits is the integration of information from different sources to form a reliable basis for behavior . While animals behave as if they optimally integrate information according to Bayesian probability theory , the implementation of the required computations in the biological substrate remains unclear . In this paper , we propose a novel , Bayenian view on the dynamics of conductance-based neurons and synapses which suggests that they are naturally equipped to optimally perform information integration . We formally demonstrate that under these assumptions the somatic compartment naturally computes the corresponding posterior . Under these assumptions apical dendrites represent prior expectations over somatic potentials , while basal dendritics represent likelihoods of somatic potentiation . These are parametrized by local quantities , effective reversal potentials and membrane conductances . Furthermore , our model allows us to interpret behavioral and neuronal data from cue integration experiments through a Bayean lens and to make specific predictions about both system behavior and single cell dynamics .
Protein structure prediction has been widely used across several large protein sets . We describe the detection and cataloging of domains from 48 whole proteomes deposited in the AlphaFold Database . Using our Evolutionary Classification of Protein Domains ( ECOD ) from experimental structures as a basis for classification , we enumerate those highly populated domains that are shared in both eukaryotes and bacteria , such as the Rossmann domain , TIM barrels , and P-loop domains . In addition , to containing a higher fraction of disordered regions and unassigned domains ( such as Rossmann ) and unidentified non-domain regions , these proteins show a greater proportion of repeated proteins , both globular and small repeats ; on average , they can provide positive classification for 90% of residues in all proteome . Finally , by comparing the sampling of homologous groups from this whole protein set against our stable reference , I-TASSER-MTD identifies the most populated groups and discusses the implication of these results for protein target selection for future classification strategies for very large protein set .
BK polyomavirus ( BKPyV ) is a major cause of kidney transplant failure , for which there are no antivirals . The current model is that the virus expresses TAg ( large T antigen ) early during infection , promoting cells to enter S phase where the viral DNA can access the host replication machinery . By using inhibitors that only affect host and not viral replication , we show that both TAG expression and viral production rely on an initial S phase . We found that these subsequent rounds of replication of the host DNA relied on canonical host cell cycle machinery and regulators despite BK PyV infection . Together , these findings suggest a model for BKpyV replication . Using a single-cell technique to characterize the cell cycle during a Cdc7 and Cdk2 BKYV infection of human primary renal kidney epithelial ( RPTE ) cells , our study revealed that robust viral DAg expression was primarily observed in the re-replicating population , which suggested that robust TAb expression depended on a first S phase and that BKPPyV replicates during host re–replication .
Transcriptome-wide association studies ( TWAS ) have gained significant popularity in the field of genetics as they are capable of integrating gene expression mapping studies with genome-wide associations studies ( GWAS ) to uncover potentially causal associations between genes and traits . However , these fine-mapping methods have primarily focused on modeling quantitative traits and examining local genomic regions , leading to potentially suboptimal performance . Here , we present FABIO , a TWAS fine-Mapping method specifically designed for binary traits that is capable of modeling all genes jointly on an entire chromosome . FAFIO employs a probit model to directly link the genetically regulated expression ( GReX ) of genes to binary outcomes while taking into account the GREX correlation among all genes residing on a chromatid . In the real datasets , FABO significantly reduced the size of the causal gene sets by 27 . 9 % . 9% –36 . This represents an effective tool for TWAAS fine-managing of disease traits , which can be used to identify potential causal genes .
In yeast , misfolded proteins are usually refoldedas to their functional conformations or degraded by quality control mechanisms . However , it remains unclear exactly how different growth and stress conditions cause protein aggregation and the degree of stress specificity in the chaperone response to aggregate formation is unknown . We have identified the Sup35 translation termination factor as an in vivo sequestrase substrate and we show that Btn2 and Hsp42 act to suppress oxidant-induced formation of the yeast [ PSI+] prion , which is the amyloid form of Sup 35 . The toxicity of protein aggregate accumulation causes oxidative sensitivity in btn2-hsp4 mutants consistent with the idea that piron formation occurs at multiple intracellular sites during oxidation conditions in the absence of sequesterase activity . Our data identify protein sequestration as a key antioxidant defence mechanism that functions to mitigate the damaging consequences of protein oxidization-induced aggregations . Taken together , our data identify proteases that play key roles in the assembly of these deposition sites . Btng2 and HRp42 are compartment-specific sequestaxes that play important roles in assembly of this deposition site . They are compartment specific sequestrates that act to sequester oxidized proteins into defined PQC sites following ROS exposure and their absence leads to an accumulation of protein accumulates .
Glioblastoma ( GBM ) is the most common and aggressive adult primary malignant brain tumor , with an estimated annual incidence of 17 , 000 new cases per year in the USA . The majority of GBM patients also invariably experience tumor recurrence with increased chemo- and radio-resistance , and there is no standardized second line of management after initial adjuvant treatment . Standard of care treatment includes surgical resection , chemotherapy with temozolomide ( TMZ ) and radiation therapy , but despite the available therapeutic options , mean survival remains at about 12 to 15 months and the five-year survival rate at 5 .
In neuroscience , the brain assigns probabilistic models to sequences of stimuli . This conjecture is based on the assumption that the brain uses the recurrent occurrences of a regular auditory stimulus in order to build a model . We propose to address this issue by using a new clustering procedure for sets of electroencephalographic ( EEG ) data collected from participants exposed to a sequence of auditory stimuli generated by a stochastic chain . The first stage is at the individual level , where sets of segments of the EEG signal per participant are grouped using an additional distance between the distribution of sets of functional data inspired by the projective method . Our results show that regions of the pre-frontal cortex of the brain effectively use the occurrence of the strong beat to identify the structure embedded in the sequence of stimulus , with a more predominant role of the right hemisphere . As a matter of fact , in the context tree model employed in , a strong beat appears regularly and its appearance is sufficient for the brain to predict the next auditory stimulation .
Single-cell RNA-sequencing ( scRNA ) is a popular method to analyze gene expression and cellular composition at single-cell resolution . However , it harbors shortcomings: The failure to account for cell-to-cell variations of transcriptome-size ( i . e . the total number of transcripts per cell ) and also cell dissociation/processing-induced cryptic gene expression . In this study , we introduce a computationally calculated coefficient ,  cell type-specific weighting-factor ( cWF ) , to offset the transcriptome size- and cell dessociation-induced problem . We also show that c WFs effectively predict aging-progression , implicating their diagnostic applications and also their association with aging mechanism . Furthermore , our findings suggest a diagnostic utility and biological significance of cWHFs .
Mendelian randomization ( MR ) is a methodological framework in which genetic variants are used as instrumental variables to estimate causal effects of a single exposure on an outcome . MR and MVMR can be biased by the presence of pleiotropic gene variants in the set used as instrument variables , violating one of the core IV assumptions . We present simulations that illustrate how outlier removal decreases the bias in estimated effects under various forms of PLEIotropy . Radial MVMRI effectively visualises causal effect estimates , and provides valuable diagnostic information with respect to the underlying assumptions of MVRM . A RMVMR R package is presented as accompanying software for implementing the methods described .
Animal behavior spans many timescales , from short , seconds-scale actions to daily rhythms over many hours to life-long changes during aging . In this study , we use a deep learning framework SLEAP to capture the behavior of individual Drosophila melanogaster at 100 frames per second for up to 7 days at a time in featureless arenas on sucrose-agarose media . We find distinct daily patterns in all stereotyped behaviors , adding specific information about trends in different grooming modalities , proboscis extension duration , and locomotion speed to what is known about the D . melanoguester circadian cycle . Our findings , particularly with regards to the ethological distinction between the morning and evening , offer a new window into the hourly and daily patterns of behavior , revealing novel features that hint at unexplored biological mechanisms .
Protein tyrosine phosphatases non-receptor type ( PTPNs ) have been studied extensively in the context of the adaptive immune system; however , their roles beyond immunoregulation are less well explored . Here we identify novel functions for the conserved C . elegans phosphate PTNP-22 , establishing its role in nematode molting , cell adhesion , and cytoskeletal regulation . Through a non-biased genetic screen , we identified the CDC42 guanine-nucleotide exchange factor DNBP-1 ( human DNMBP ) as an in vivo partner of NTPN-22 . Collectively , these studies highlight the utility of combined genetic and proteomic approaches for identifying novel gene functions .
Malaria is a major global health problem , affecting more than 1 , 000 million people worldwide . Current malaria elimination targets must withstand a colossal challenge-resistance to the current gold standard antimalarial drug , artemisinin derivatives . We develop a geostatistical model of the presence of non-synonymous mutations in the Kelch 13 ( K13 ) gene , which are known to be associated with artemisine resistance . Our maps of estimated prevalence show an expansion of the K13 mutation across the Greater Mekong Subregion from 2000 to 2022 . Moreover , the period between 2010 and 2015 demonstrated the most spatial change across the region . If artemisinate resistance significantly expands to Africa or India , cases and malaria-related deaths are set to increase substantially .
NLRP1 and CARD8 are essential components of the inflammasome signaling pathway , critical for the innate immune response . Inflammase-1 is a key component of the immune response to pathogens , but the mechanism of its activation remains elusive . Here , we have identified two conserved autoinhibitory complexes involving NT-CT and FL-CT peptides in a murine and rat model of NF-1 . These proteins exist in different forms due to autoproteolysis within the FIIND domain , resulting in full-length ( FL ) , an N-terminal ( NT ) and cleaved C-terminals . Besides the FL-DPP9-CT complex , DPP9 interacts with NTs of mNLRP1/b and rNLRP2 , which form both NT–CT andFL–CT complex; however , the detailed mechanism remains ambiguous . Our study enriched the understanding of the regulatory functions of function-to-find domain-containing proteins in the inflamasome and underscored the complexity of their interactions within the immune system .
Defects in protein homeostasis can induce proteotoxic stress , affecting cellular fitness and , consequently , overall tissue health . In various growing tissues , cell competition based mechanisms facilitate detection and elimination of these compromised , often referred to as 'loser' cells by the healthier neighbors . However , recent studies have shown that Rer1 is required for the assembly of multisubunit protein complexes , for example the tetrameric -secretase complex , yeast iron transporter and skeletal muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor ( nAChR ) . Here , we reveal the function of an endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) and Golgi localized protein Rer-1 in the regulation of protein homeosis in the developing Drosophila wing epithelium . We show that loss of Rer 1 leads to proteotoxicity stress and PERK-mediated phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 . Interestingly , our results show that rer1 levels are upregulated upon Myc-overexpression that causes overgrowth and thereby supporting Myc–driven overgrowth . Our results suggest that increased levels of RER1 provide cytoprotection to myc-expressed cells by alleviating the proteo toxic stress and thus supporting MyC-driven over growth .
The CHEK2-enocded protein ( CHK2 ) is a checkpoint kinase gene that is associated with breast and other cancers . Mutations in this gene are associated with increased risk of breast cancer . However , most of the non-synonymous single nucleotide changes that can result from mutations in the yeast ortholog of the cheK2 gene , RAD53 , have not been tested for their impact on the function of the protein . Here we tested all but two of the 4 , 887 possible SNVs using a high throughput technique of deep mutational scanning ( DMS ) . The results correlate well with previous structure and function data and provide a first or additional functional assay for all the variants of uncertain significance identified in clinical databases . Combined , this approach can be used to help predict the pathogenicity of CHE K2 variants that are found in susceptibility screening and could be applied to other cancer risk genes .
Human pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae forms multiple epigenetically and phenotypically distinct intra-populations by inversions of DNA methyltransferase hsdS genes in the colony opacity-determinant ( cod ) locus . Because spontaneous variations frequently occur during bacterial growth in the number of AT di-nucleotides in the promoter region of the spxA1-tenA operon , this locus acts as a programmed genetic switch that generates pneumococcal subpopulation with epigenetic and phylogenetic diversity . Here , we report our finding of the SpxA-1-TenA toxin-antitoxin ( TA ) system that regulates the orientations of HHSD inversion orientations , and thereby bacterial epigenome and associated traits ( e . g . colony size ) by targeting pneumophilic protein synthesis . We found that overexpression of toxine TenA led to growth arrest in E .coli and enhanced autolysis in S . pneumoniae , while the antitoxin SpXA1 repressed the transcription of the cod locus and reshaped the cellular level of alternative sigma factor ComX ( known for the activation of natural transformation-associated genes ) .
High-dimensional data have become ubiquitous in the biological sciences , and it is often desirable to compare two datasets collected under different experimental conditions to extract low-dimensional patterns enriched in one condition . In this study , we describe the development of generalized contrastive PCA ( gcPCA ) , a flexible hyperparameter-free approach that solves this problem . We first provide analyses explaining why gbPCA requires a parameter resulting in multiple solutions , with no way of knowing which is correct . Moreover , our method uses foreground and background conditions that are treated differently , making it ill-suited to comparative two experimental conditions symmetrically . Furthermore , the method uses a foreedge and background condition that is treated differently; making it unsuitable to compare 2 experimental conditions simultaneously . Finally , by demonstrating the utility of gmPCA in analyzing diverse high-dimensional biological data , We reveal unsupervised detection of hippocampal replay in neurophysiological recordings and heterogeneity of type II diabetes in single-cell RNA sequencing data .
B cell receptor ( BCR ) signaling is required for the survival and maturation of B cells and is deregulated in B cell lymphomas . We have developed a quantitative network analysis of BCR signaling in Burkitt lymphoma ( BL ) cells using systematically perturbed phosphorylation data of BL-2 and BL-41 cells . The models unveiled feedback and crosstalk structures in the BCR network , including a negative crosstalk from p38 to MEK/ERK . Compared to the starting network we showed that the trained network for BL-1 cells was better transferable to BL-4 cells , indicating that BCR aberration does not cause a major downstream rewiring .
The ubiquitous Notch receptor signalling network is essential for tissue growth and maintenance . To date , it has been assumed that these processes involve discrete ligand homomers , not heteromeric complexes composed of more than one molecule . In this study , we explore the molecular basis of the opposing actions of the Notch liganders , DLL4 and JAG1 , which control angiogenic sprouting . We propose a new model of Notch signalling that recapitulates the formation of tip and stalk cells , necessary for sprouting angiogenesis .
Clustering is widely used in bioinformatics and many other fields , with applications from exploratory analysis to prediction . Many types of data have associated uncertainty or measurement error , but this is rarely used to inform the clustering . We present Dirichlet Process Mixtures with Uncertainty ( DPMUnc ) , an extension of a Bayesian nonparametric clustering algorithm which makes use of the uncertainty associated with data points . In this work , we present a method for generating a summary of GWAS summary statistics , which have uncertainty linked with the sample size of the study . DPMunc separates autoimmune from autoinflammatory diseases and isolates other subgroups such as adult-onset arthritis . The significance of this work is two-fold .
Deep neural networks have been remarkably successful as models of the primate visual system . However , they fail to account for the strong shape-dependence of primate vision . We design simple , artificial image datasets in which shape , color , and texture features can be used to predict the image class . One crucial problem is that they lack the ability to learn to use shape features , whereas others are able to use shapes in principle but are biased towards the other features . By training networks from scratch to classify images with single features and feature combinations , we show that some network architectures are unable to learn the classification at all when they are trained from scratch on a dataset where shape is the only available feature . This suggests that different learning algorithms with sparser , more local weight changes are required to make networks more sensitive to shape and improve their ability to describe human vision , while the underlying reasons remain unclear .
Hepatic stellate cells ( HSCs ) are the source of extracellular matrix ( ECM ) whose overproduction leads to fibrosis , a condition that impairs liver functions in chronic liver diseases . In this study , we developed rule-based models to study HSC dynamics during reversion and reversal . We validated the predicted ECM dynamics by analyzing RNA sequencing data from patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis ( NASH ) associated with liver fetus . Our model also predicts the accumulation of iHSCs during chronic liver disease . Using new experimental data from a mouse model of CCl4-induced liver fibrosilica , our model confirms the critical role of the HSC inactivation process during fibrosion and reassuring the sensitivity to ( TGF1 ) parameters . Overall , this study provides the first model of HSC Dynamics in chronic kidney disease that can be used to explore the regulatory role of fibroblasts in liver homeostasis in other tissues .
Large-scale genomic consortia , such as the Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine ( TOPMed ) program , comprise multiple cohorts with diverse technologies to elucidate the genetic architecture and biological mechanisms underlying complex human traits and diseases . We have developed a novel meta-analysis framework , requiring only summary statistics and allowing inter-study heterogeneity , to estimate the total mediation effect of gene expression on age-related variation in systolic blood pressure ( BP ) and sex-related variability in high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol . The proposed method is available in R package MetaR2M on GitHub .
The identification of these driver genes is a crucial step in designing effective cancer treatments . Although many computational methods have been developed with this purpose , the majority of existing methods solely provided a single driver gene list for the entire cohort of patients , ignoring the high heterogeneity of driver events across patients . In this study , we propose a novel method ( PDRWH ) , which aims to prioritize the mutated genes of a individual patient based on their impact on the abnormal expression of downstream genes across a group of patients who share the co-mutation genes and similar gene expression profiles . We also validated one of our predicted novel personalized driver genes on tumor cell proliferation by vitro cell-based assays , and the promoting effect of the high expression of Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 ( LRP1 ) on tumor cells proliferation . Our results also demonstrated that personalized driver profiles could improve tumor stratification and taking a further step toward personalized treatment .
The Virtual Epileptic Patient ( VEP ) is a computer-based representation of a patient with epilepsy that combines personalized anatomical data with dynamical models of abnormal brain activity . It is capable of generating spatio-temporal seizure patterns that resemble those recorded with invasive methods such as stereoelectro EEG data , allowing for the evaluation of clinical hypotheses before planning surgery . Through extensive benchmarking , our proposal successfully solved a set of different configurations of VEP models demonstrating better scalability and superior performance against other parallel solvers . Additionally , we added a scalable uncertainty quantification phase after model calibration , and used it to assess the variability in estimated parameters across different problems . Overall , this study has the potential to improve the estimation of pathological brain areas in drug-resistant epilepsia , thus to inform the clinical decision-making process .
Tuberculosis ( TB ) is a major health problem in the developing world , with 10 . 6 million cases of the disease and 1 . 8 million deaths in 2021 . We performed experiments with rabbits infected with a novel , virulent clinical Mtb isolate of the Beijing lineage , HN878 , carrying an unstable plasmid pBP10 . In our in vitro experiments we found that the kinetics of the bacterial population in lungs of MtB-infected rabbits did not follow an expected monotonic decline; the percent of plasmud-bearing cells increased between 28 and 56 days post-infection and remained stable between 84 and 112 days post–infection despite a large increase in bacterial numbers in the lung at late time points . Our model predictions can be tested in future experiments in which HN 878-pBP-10 dynamics in individual granulomas is followed over time . Importantly , when the model was run stochastically , the data suggest independent bacterial dynamics in subsets of such granular lesions . Taken together , our new data and mathematical modeling-based analyses illustrate differences in MTb dynamics in mice and rabbits confirming a perhaps somewhat obvious observation that  rabbits are not mice .
The glycans on the surface of proteins are known as “self” by the adaptive immune system . However , experimental structure determination of sugar polymers is notoriously difficult . In this work , we developed a computational method , GlycanTreeModeler , that computationally builds complex carbohydrates , using adaptive kernel density estimates ( KDE ) of common carbohydrate conformations derived from data in the Protein Data Bank ( PDB ) and quantum mechanics ( QM ) calculations . We used these tools to design de novo gycan trees into a protein nanoparticle vaccine to shield regions of the scaffold from antibody recognition , and experimentally verified shielding . Structures predicted by GlycnTreoModeler agreed with native structures at high accuracy . This work will inform glycoprotein model prediction , glcan masking , or further aid computational methods in experimental structural determination and refinement .
Penicillium oxalicum contains many transcription factors , such as BrlA , CreA XlnR , and Ace1 , conserved in filamentous fungi that regulate the fungal development and transcription of ( hemi ) cellulase genes . The E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase SCF ( Skp1-Cullin-F-box ) complex directly recognizes the target substrate via interaction between the F-box protein and the substrate . When PoFbx23 is present , PoAce1 exists as a full-length version and several low-molecular-weight degraded versions . Under cellulose signal , the transcription factor Ace1 ( also known as SltA ) positively correlated with fungal growth and conidiation , while negatively correlated to the expression of the pigmentation-related gene abrB . Deleting the Pofbx 23 gene does not affect Poace1 gene transcription but results in the remarkable accumulation of all versions of the Po Ace1 protein .
In the follicular epithelium of fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster , the basement membrane ( BM ) is a specialized extracellular matrix forming a complex sheet-like architectural meshwork that lines most of animal tissues . The basement membrane is an essential structural element of tissues , and its diversification participates in organ morphogenesis . Here , we determined the specific molecular identity and cell exit sites of BM protein secretory routes . We found that Rab10 and Rab8 define two parallel routes for BM proteins secretion . DAPC was essential for fibril formation and sufficient to reorient secreted towards the Rab10 route . In addition , our results revealed that the dystrophin-associated protein complex ( DA PC ) and Rab10 were both present in a planar-polarized tubular compartment containing BM components . When both routes were abolished , BM production was fully blocked; however , genetic interactions revealed that these two routes competed . Altogether , these results highlight important mechanistic aspects of BI protein secretione and illustrate how BM diversity can emerge from the spatial control of distinct traffic routes , which are still poorly understood .
Despite the recent advances in machine learning , the ability to predict HIV-1 resistance to broadly neutralizing antibodies ( bnAbs ) is an unsolved problem . One challenge is that some HIV-1 subtypes in currently available training datasets are underrepresented , which likely affects models’ generalizability across subtype compositions . We develop a new model and show that , beyond the boost in performance in some cases , MTL also helps address the previous two challenges .
Multiple myeloma ( MM ) is a hematological disease exhibiting aberrant clonal expansion of cancerous plasma cells in the bone marrow . Most previous models were constructed at the gene level , ignoring the fact that the dysfunction of the pathway is closely associated with disease development and progression . The present study explored two strategies that construct predictive models by taking pathway information into consideration: pathway score method and group lasso using pathway information . We implemented these methods in microarray data for MM and obtained a candidate model with the best prediction performance in interval validation . In addition , the new model was more resistant to missing values , and the presence of missing values (  5 % ) would not evidently deteriorate its prediction accuracy using our missing data imputation method . Vax ( grp ) also outperformed the previously published models . Our computational workflow can also serve as a comprehensive guidebook for future studies where prior knowledge needs to be incorporated into predictive models , including gene-based models ( particularly sparse models ) .
Mitochondrial hyperfission in response to cellular insult is associated with reduced energy production and programmed cell death . This non-monotone dependence on  suggests interventions targeting k+ , k , or M may have a non-intuitive impact on the fission mechanism . Thus understanding the impact of regulatory parameters , such as  (  ) , may assist future therapeutic target selection . In this study , we develop a Nonlinear Dynamin Related Protein One ( Drp1 )-dependent mitochondrial Fission Mechanism ( TFR ) and use it to identify parameters which can regulate the total fisson rate ( TF ) as a function of time . The TFR defines from a not-dimensionalization of the model undergoes a Hopf bifurcation with bifurction parameter  = k + M k - where M is the total concentration of mitochondrial fistision factor ( Mff ) while k++ and k> are the association and dissociation rate constants between oligomers on the outer mitochondrial membrane . Though the nondimensionalization results in four dimensionless parameters ; we found the TFR and the cumulative total fistison ( TF ) depend strongly on only one of them , “ . Interestingly , the cumulative TF does not monotonically increase as ” increases . Our results suggest that intervention targeting  may have an unintuitive effect on the FFR .
A key challenge for successful suppression-type drive is how to keep large-scale rearing for area-wide releases with a homing suppression element that would otherwise crash due to female infertility . In this study , we constructed a 3-gRNA homING gene drive system targeting the recessive female fertility gene Tyrosine decarboxylase 2 ( Tdc2 ) in Drosophila suzukii , a notorious fruit pest . We tested the effectiveness of a similar system and constructed additional split drive systems by introducing promoter-Cas9 transgenes to improve homer efficiency . Our findings show that genetic polymorphisms in wild populations may limit the spread of gene drive alleles , and the position effect profoundly influences Cas9 activity . Furthermore , this study highlights the potential of conditionally rescuing the female inbretility caused by the gene drive , offering a valuable tool for the industrial-scale production of gene drives transgenic insects .
The brain is not only constrained by energy needed to fuel computation , but also by energy necessary to form memories . In biology networks are often much larger than the task requires , yet vanilla backprop prescribes to update all synapses . However , learning a task like MNIST to 95% accuracy appears to require at least 108 synaptic updates . Thus , competitively restricting plasticity helps to save metabolic energy associated to synaptical plasticity . We explored the energy required for learning in feedforward neural networks . Using a parsimonious energy model , we propose two plasticity restricting algorithms that save energy . First , only modify synapes with large updates , and second , restrict plasticity to subsets of synapés that form a path through the network . Our results might lead to a better understanding of biological plasticity and a more match between artificial and biological learning .
Synthetic biologists have purposefully engineered streamlined microbial genomes to create more efficient cellular chassis and define the minimal components of cellular life . During natural or engineered genome streamlining , deletion of many non-essential genes in combination often reduces bacterial fitness for idiosyncratic or unknown reasons . We investigated how and to what extent laboratory evolution could overcome these defects in six variants of the transposon-free Acinetobacter baylyi strain ADP1-ISx that each had a deletion of a different 22- to 42-kilobase region and two strains with larger deletions of 70 and 293 kilobases . Fitness increased in all cases that were examined except for two ancestors that each failed to improve in one of the two environments . Mutations in the global post-transcriptional regulators rnd ( ribonuclease D ) , csrA ( RNA-binding carbon storage regulator ) and hfq were frequently mutated across all strains , though the incidence and effects of these mutations on gene function and fitness varied with the ancestral deletion and evolution environment . More generally , our results demonstrate that fitness lost during genomestreamlining can usually be regained rapidly through laboratory evolution and that recovery tends to occur through a combination of deletion-specific compensation and global regulatory adjustments .
The regulation of gene expression is essential to understand a wide range of biological processes . Control over gene expression can be achieved using site-directed recombinases and endonucleases . However , their efficiency is variable and dependent on the genomic context . To circumvent this issue , an artificial Schistosoma mansoni hammerhead ribozyme , called T3H48 , which displays a dramatic increase in cleavage rate has recently been engineered . We first use a GFP reporter assay to assess the efficiency of several natural self-cleaving RNA cleaves . In addition , we generated a Flippase- and Cre-activatable version of the T3F48 ribolide , RiboFlip , to control the mRNA levels of the albino gene . RibOlip activation induced mDNA knockdown and recapitulated the albine mutant phenotype . Furthermore , a Cre- and Dre-controllable Gal4/UAS reporter in the Riboflip cassette can label knocked-down cells independently of the expression of the target gene , showing the specificity of the approach . Altogether , our approach is a flexible tool to control endogenous gene expression in a vertebrate model and as an alternative to existing conditional knockdown strategies .
Convolutional neural networks ( CNNs ) can detect these structures also in only transmitted light images , very similar to manual segmentation . However , this approach currently requires optimized experimental conditions and computational specialists . Here , we introduce a user-friendly CNN-based software to segment nuclei and cells in bright field images . This eliminates the need for transgenic or dye fluorescent labeling , frees up imaging channels , reduces phototoxicity and speeds up imaging . It is agnostic to computational environments and does not require user expert coding experience . aiSEGcell is accessible through both a command line , and a napari graphical user interface . We extensively evaluated it for nucleus segmentation in different primary cell types in 2D cultures from different imaging modalities in hand-curated published and novel imaging data sets .
Human behaviour is a complex process that requires a large number of factors to be considered . One such factor is the rate of change of features , given that behaviourally relevant processes tend to change on a slower timescale than noise . In this study , we asked whether humans are biased to learn more when task-relevant features are slow rather than fast . We found that participants learned more when a bandit's relevant feature changed slowly , and its irrelevant feature quickly , as compared to the opposite . The larger the improvement in participants' performance for slow versus fast bandits , the more strongly they adjusted their learning rates . These results provide evidence that human reinforcement learning favours slower features and suggests a bias in how humans approach reward learning .
ER-negative breast cancer is the most common cancer in the world , and is the primary cause of mortality in most solid tumors . In this study , we have identified a novel metastasis susceptibility gene , Retroviral silencing factor 1 ( Resf1 ) , as a potential tumor suppressor and metastases modifier . We have previously identified 12 genes associated with metastatic biology , but we have not yet identified any other genes . Here , our study extends these findings to identify a new gene encoding a protein that has been implicated in the progression of metastatic breast cancer . This gene is a large , unstructured protein with an evolutionarily conserved intron-exon structure , with poor amino acid conservation . Mechanistic analysis revealed a role of Resf2 in transcriptional control through association with compound G4 quadruplexes in expressed sequences , particularly those associated with ribosomal biogenesis . These results suggest that loss of ResF1 enhances tumor progression through multiple alterations in both transcriptional and translational control . Furthermore , an analysis of matched tail and primary tissues revealed loss of the wildtype copy in tumor tissue , consistent with Resf1. This study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying metastatic disease .
In most organisms , such recombination-dependent interactions facilitate homologue pairing during leptotene-zygotene , full alignment and connection via the synaptonemal complex at pachytene and subsequent reductional chromosome segregation at the meiosis I nuclear division . Mec1 and Rad24 have important roles in the regulation of meiotic DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) , but their genome-wide roles have not been examined in detail . Here , we utilise two strategies-deletion of the mismatch repair protein , Msh2 , and control of the prophase length via regulation of the Ndt80 transcription factor-to help characterise the roles of Mec1/Rad24 and Mec1. Collectively , in addition to shared roles in CO regulation , our results highlight separable roles for Rad24 as a pro-CO factor , as well as for Mec-1 as -dependent regulator of recomponance frequency . We also show that loss of either Rad24 or Mec1, which is driven by a shortened prophase , has less effect on spore viability . Our results suggest a loss of spatial regulation of crossovers ( COs ), which may be driven by reductions in the proportion of interfering COs caused by abrogation of the DDR .
Pneumocystis jirovecii is a deadly pathogen of humans that causes life-threatening pneumonia in immunocompromised individuals and transplant patients . However , a significant number of bacterial and fungal species remain unculturable , hampering research efforts . To identify metabolic requirements and imbalances that hinder growth in vitro , we have developed a comprehensive in silico genome-scale metabolic model ( GEM ) of the fungus . This powerful approach has been successfully applied to metabolic engineering , strain development , drug discovery , enzyme functional predictions , interspecies interactions modelling and the understanding of human diseases . We utilise recently published genome data and available information in the literature as well as bioinformatics and software tools to develop and validate the model . Our findings offer insights into the biology of Pneumolosis and provide a novel strategy to overcome the longstanding challenge of culturing this pathogen .
In cancer cells , the transcriptional coactivator Yes-associated protein ( YAP ) /transcriptional co-activator with PDZ binding motif ( TAZ ) induces cell proliferation through nuclear localization at low cell density . This activation leads to the translocation of yAP/TAZ into the cytoplasm , resulting in cell cycle arrest . However , it is not entirely clear whether this several-fold increase in YA/TAS alone is sufficient to overcome proliferation inhibition ( contact inhibition ) under high-density conditions , and thereby allowing continuous proliferation . Herein , we construct a 3D mathematical model of cell proliferation incorporating the Hippo-YAP/TAZ pathway . We assume Lennard-Jones ( 12-6 ) potential with a softcore character so that each cell secures its exclusive domain . In this study , our study provides new insights into the mechanisms driving cancer proliferation and presents a newly and more dynamic model compared to previous research .
Many eukaryotic proteins and RNAs contain low-complexity domains ( LCDs ) with a strong propensity for binding and driving phase separation into biomolecular condensates . Mutations in LCDs frequently disrupt condencate dynamics , resulting in pathological transitions to solid-like states . We present a free energy landscape of stickers ( FELaS ) , an energy landscape framework that operates on a continuous 'stickiness' energy scale rather than relying on an explicit alphabet-based sequence . Our results reveal that minimum sticker periodicity is crucial for maintaining fluidity in condenses , while random sequences exhibit viscosity-dominated properties . Moreover , we demonstrate that the energy landscape model explains the recent experimental findings on prion domains and predicts systematic alterations in conformational properties through sticky periodicity and strength variations .
In ectodermal organs , the development of an incisor and molar is a complex process . The development of these organs begins with the formation of a stratified epithelial placode that progressively invaginates into the underlying mesenchyme as the organ takes its shape . In this study , we show that non-muscle myosin II is essential for the development and maintenance of dental epithelium . We show that myoSin II activates the Shh signaling pathway to promote efficient cell-cell adhesion and persistent convergent cell movements in the suprabasal layer , where cells at the periphery of the tooth bud move towards the midline . Our results support a model in which the ShH signal is transmitted through myoII to power efficient cellular rearrangement and tissue shape changes .
The rapid advancement of large-scale atlas-level single cell RNA sequences and single-cell chromatin accessibility data provide extraordinary avenues to broad and deep insight into complex biological mechanism . However , the current label transfer methods have limited performance , largely due to the lower capable of preserving fine-grained cell populations and intrinsic or extrinsic heterogeneity between datasets . Here , we present a robust deep transfer model based graph convolutional network , which achieves versatile performance in preserving biological variation , while achieving integration hundreds of thousands cells in minutes with low memory consumption . Leveraging the datasets and transfering labels from scRNA-seq to SCA-siRNA enables our model to best leverage the domain-specific effects . Furthermore , these methods are mainly targeted towards integrating datasets of less complex tissues , leading to the loss of power to reveal interesting biological variations .
In fungi , nuclear localization sequences ( NLSs ) are essential for the transport of a protein into the cell nucleus . However , it is not clear how NLS-containing proteins are transported into the nucleum . In this study , we characterized the sequence specificity of an essential and conserved NLS in Mcm3 , a subunit of the replicative DNA helicase . We show that the precise positioning of basic residues within the NLS is critical for nuclear transport of Mcm3, resulting in defective chromatin loading of the MCM complex and poor cell growth . Through mutagenesis and AlphaFold 3 ( AF3 ) modeling , our results provide a structure-guided framework for predicting and analyzing NLS , which despite lacking a universally conserved sequence , retain key characteristics shared between the NLFs of McM3 and the SV40 large T antigen . Our results provide an elucidation of the sequencespecificity of mcm3's NLS that is essential for nuclear import and subsequent loading , and also refine predictions of other putative NLS to exist in many nuclear proteins .
Ataxin-2 ( ATXN2 ) is a gene implicated in spinocerebellar ataxia type II ( SCA2 , amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) and Parkinsonism . The encoded protein is able to function in translational activation , translational repression , mRNA stability and in the assembly of mRNP-granules , which are mediated by intrinsically disordered regions ( IDRs ) . Previous work has shown that the LSm ( Like-Sm ) domain of Atx2 antagonizes IDR-function . Here we advance these findings through a series of experiments on Drosophila and human Ataxiin-2 proteins . We propose an early role for PAM2: PABP , the polyA-binding protein interacting , as a major determinant of the mRANP granulus contents , and how structured and non-structured interactions contribute differently to the specificity and efficiency of RNP ganule condensation as well as to neurodegeneration .
Muscle stem cells ( MuSCs ) are a group of stem cells that arise in an asynchronous manner in different anatomical locations , and they are selectively deregulated or spared during disease and ageing . In this study , we show that the MuSC gene Pitx2 becomes progressively dispensable for specification and maintenance of the muscle stem cell pool in extraocular muscles , despite being , together with Myf5 , an upstream regulator during early development . We also demonstrate that MuSC in the EOMs adopt a quiescent state earlier than those in limb muscles and do not spontaneously proliferate in the adult , yet EOWs have a significantly higher content of Pax7+ MuSC per area pre- and post-natally . Thus , our study provides a comprehensive in vivo characterisation of MuSC heterogeneity along the body axis and brings further insights into the unusual sparing of EOM muscles during muscular dystrophy .
In this study , we introduce a novel SI1...InR infectious disease model to simulate the spread of SARS-CoV-2 variants among the human population . We combine the proposed epidemic model and reported infected data of variants with physical information neural networks ( PINNs ) to develop a new mechanism called VOCs-informed neural network ( VOCS-INN ) . In our experiments , We found that this algorithm can accurately fit the reported data of the British Columbia province and its five internal health agencies in Canada . Furthermore , it can simulate observed or unobserved dynamics , infer time-dependent parameters , and enable short-term predictions . The experimental results also reveal variations in the intensity of control strategies implemented across these regions . These variants may show distinct levels of virulence , antigenicity , or infectivity , which require specific defense and control measures .
Image-based cell profiling is a powerful tool that compares perturbed cell populations by measuring thousands of single-cell features and summarizing them into profiles . However , it fails to capture the heterogeneity within cell populations . Here , we introduce CytoSummaryNet , a Deep Sets-based approach that improves mechanism of action prediction by 30% in mean average precision compared to average profiling on a public dataset . The approach uses self-supervised contrastive learning in a multiple-instance learning framework , providing an easier-to-apply method for aggregating individual features . Interpretability analysis suggests that the model achieves this improvement by downweighting small mitotic cells or those with debris and prioritizing large uncrowded cells .
The ability to solve complex tasks relies on the adaptive changes occurring in the spatio-temporal organization of brain activity under different conditions . Altered flexibility in these dynamics can lead to impaired cognitive performance , manifesting for instance as difficulties in attention regulation , distraction inhibition , and behavioral adaptation . Therefore , developing quantitative measures that can directly assess the effort involved in these transitions using neural data is of paramount importance . In this study , we propose a framework to associate cognitive effort during the performance of tasks with electroencephalography ( EEG ) activation patterns . The methodology relies upon the identification of discrete dynamical states ( EEC microstates ) and optimal transport theory . Such impairments result in decreased efficiency and increased effort in accomplishing goal-directed tasks . Our findings reveal an increased cost linked to cognitive effort , thus confirming the framework's effectiveness in capturing and quantifying cognitive transitions .
Despite the rapid spread of drug-resistant parasite strains and the formation of hypnozoites in the liver with potential to cause relapse and the diversity of antigens , a highly effective vaccine to prevent the disease is essential . To date , the generation of P . vivax-specific atypical memory B cells ( aMBCs ) and their function in protective humoral immune responses is unknown . In this study , we generated tetramer probes to detect the development and durability of specific aB cells , and to demonstrate the capacity of these cells to produce neutralizing antibodies following natural infections . We found that the accumulation of aPBCs during and following infections might play an important role in producing protective antibodies against malaria . Our findings revealed that P  v , which is a protein that binds Duffy Antigen Receptor for Chemokines ( DARC ) , was elicited during malaria illness and persisted through the recovery phase of infections , while some produced high antibody levels comparable to classical MBC clones . The somatic hypermutation rate and CDR3 length of VH and V in these two MBC subsets were not significantly different .
Polygenic prediction of complex trait phenotypes has become important in human genetics , especially in the context of precision medicine . However , a drawback of mr . mash-rss is that it requires individual-level data , which are often not publicly available . In this work , we introduce a flexible and computationally efficient method that models multiple phenometypes jointly and leverages sharing of effects across such phenetypes to improve prediction accuracy . By using summary statistics from Genome-Wide Association Studies ( GWAS ) and linkage disequilibrium ( LD ) estimates from a reference panel , We show that mR . Mash-Rss achieves higher prediction accuracy than competing methods for the majority of traits , particularly when the data set has smaller sample size . We also present a real data analysis of 16 blood cell phenitypes in the UK Biobank , showing that the model is competitive with and often outperforms current state-of-the-art methods for single- and multi-phenotypic polygenic prediction .
In the past few decades , emerging infectious diseases such as SARS , influenza A and COVID-19 have been affecting the world's population . However , there is still a challenge in addressing heterogeneity in the system . In this study , we propose a novel modelling framework integrating spatio-temporal heterogenity of susceptible individuals into homogeneous models , by introducing a continuous recruitment process for the susceptibles . Subsequently we project the attack rate and peak of new infections for the first Omicron wave in China after the adjustment of the dynamic zero-COVID policy . Our projections indicate an attack rate of 80 . 17% of the population and prolongs the outbreak period from 30 days to 70 days , also aligning with the real case . Simultaneously , We pre-set a specific form for the recruitment rate and develop a mechanistic model . We consider that this study builds the groundwork for the development of a new class of models and new insights for modelling heterogeniity .
Synapses in the brain are highly noisy , which leads to a large trial-by-trial variability . Here we propose that synapses use noise to represent uncertainties about the somatic activity of its postsynaptic neuron . In addition , we show that the emergent dynamics of many synapes in a neuronal network resolve different learning problems such as pattern classification or closed-loop control in ambiguous situations . Given how costly synapies are in terms of energy consumption these high levels of noise are surprising .
Cell lineage tree reconstruction methods are developed for various tasks , such as investigating the development , differentiation , and cancer progression . Common challenges of single-cell DNA sequencing are included in Scuphr , a distance-based cell lineage Tree reconstruction method . The method's robustness is investigated using various synthetic datasets and a biological dataset of 18 cells . ScupHr computes the distance between cell pairs and reconstructs the lineage trees using the neighbor-joining algorithm . With its embarrassingly parallel design , Scupr can do faster analysis than the state-of-the-art methods while obtaining better accuracy .
In Malawi , the health benefits packages ( HBPs ) are often framed through the lens of “health benefits packages ” ( HPPs ), which seek to establish which services the public healthcare system should include in its provision . This approach , however , has limitations . In this work , we propose the individual-based Thanzi La Onse ( TLO ) model as a uniquely-tailored tool to assist in the evaluation of Malawi-specific HPP strategies while addressing these limitations , highlighting the limitations of these analyses . We found that the HBP emerging from a linear constrained optimisation analysis ( LCOA ) achieved the largest health gain-8 % reduction in disability adjusted life years ( DALYs , between 2023 and 2042 ) compared to the benchmark scenario-by concentrating resources on high-impact treatments . By mechanistically modelling-and calibrating to extensive , country-specific data-the incidence of disease , health-seeking behaviour , and the capacity of the healthcare system to meet the demand for care under realistic constraints on human resources for health available , We were able to simulate the health gains achievable under a number of plausible HBP strategies for the country . Unlike the LMOA-based HBP , this approach achieved consistent health gains relative to the baseline scenario on a year- to-year basis , which suggests an approach based upon patient characteristics might prove beneficial in the future .
In the holocentric pantry moth , Plodia interpunctella , we have investigated the mechanisms underlying meiotic chromosome segregation in both species . We find that in both of these species , homolog pairing is initiated at gene-rich end-on microtubules , and sister kinetochores do not seem to be paired . In contrast , in Bombyx and Plodia spermatogenesis , sister kinetochores do not appear to be separated . Surprisingly , our findings challenge the classical view of segregtion where paired poleward-facing kientochores are required for accurate homolog separation in meiosis I . However , unlike the telomere-oriented chromomal segregations mechanism observed in bombyx , plodia can orient bivalents in multiple different ways at metaphase I , which is a major step in the evolution of a holographic system . Our findings highlight the importance of exploring fundamental processes in non-model systems , as employing novel organisms can lead to the discovery of novel biology .
During the development of the human pituitary , the brain receives information from the pituid . The pituetary is located at the base of the third ventricle , and is regulated by neurohormones secreted by different hypothalamic neurons into a bed of fenestrated capillaries called the median eminence ( ME ) . In this study , we show that loss of SOX3 in the central nervous system ( CNS ) is sufficient to cause hypopituitarism and that this occurs postnatally , at the time of weaning . We further show that low-dose Aspirin treatment , which is known to affect NG2-glia , rescues both proliferative defects and hypopitusis in Sox3 mutants . Our study highlights a central role for NG2-glia in ME function during a transitional period of post-natal development and indicates their sensitivity to extrinsic signals .
The morphogenesis of C . elegans embryos is a complex process that involves the movement of cells that engulf the entire embryo , and a later cell migration of the larval Distal Tip Cell . The two-component GEF , CED-5/CED-12 , is known to activate CED-10/Rac1 to promote cell movements that result in the elongation of dying cells during embryogenesis , as well as a subsequent cell migration . We investigated how CED-12 could have two opposing effects on F-actin , during embryonic cell migrations . Mutating a candidate catalytic Arginine in CED 5/DOCK predicted to bind and stabilize Rac1 for catalysis , resulted in loss of both ventral enclosure and corpse entgulfment . Thus , we propose CED-6/CD-12 support the cycling of multiple GTPases , by using distinct domains , to both promote and inhibit F-ACTin nucleation . Our results suggest that CED-8/CDG-12 supports the cycle of multiple genes , using distinct regions , that both promote the activation and inhibition of F- actin .
A core challenge for the brain is to process information across various timescales . In this study , we used an optimized information-theoretic and classical autocorrelation analysis to show that information- and correlation timescale of spiking activity increase along the anatomical hierarchy of the mouse visual system under visual stimulation , while information-and correlation predictability decreases , whereas predictability is stimulus-dependent . Our findings suggest that the rodent visual system employs intrinsic mechanisms to achieve longer integration for higher cortical areas , whilst simultaneously reducing predictability for an efficient neural code . We could reproduce these observations in a basic recurrent network model with correlated sensory input .
Transcranial magnetic stimulation ( TMS ) is a non-invasive , FDA-cleared treatment for neuropsychiatric disorders with broad potential for new applications , but the neural circuits that are engaged during TMS are still poorly understood . We used epidural recordings from the cervical spine of human subjects to develop a computational model of a motor cortical macrocolumn through which the mechanisms underlying the response to TMS could be investigated . The results support the hypothesis that different pathways of circuit activation contribute to different corticospinal waves with participation of both excitatory and inhibitory neurons . Moreover , activation of both afferents to the motor cortex as well as specific neuron types within the motor corticus initiated different I-waves , and the results were interpreted to propose the cortically origins of efferent neurons that may give rise to certain I-Waves .
Cell-free placental DNA ( cfpDNA ) is present in maternal circulation throughout pregnancy . Cfp DNA has been widely used in the clinical setting for noninvasive prenatal testing ( NIPT ) to screen for fetal genetic aberrations , most notably chromosomal aneuploidies . However , the basic biology of cFpDNA remains poorly understood , limiting the research and clinical utility of a tool . In this review , we will examine the current knowledge of bfpD , highlight gaps in knowledge , and discuss future research directions .
Hormone-dependent cancers ( HDCs ) share several risk factors , suggesting a common aetiology . This is supported by genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) which have identified hundreds of cancer-specific risk loci ( pleiotropic loci ) . These cancers share several environmental , behavioural and genetic risk factors that suggest a shared aegis . Our approach provides a framework for identifying common target genes driving complex traits and enhances understanding of HDC susceptibility .
Inherited causes of distinct forms of autoimmune-mediated inflammatory myopathy ( IM ) have been investigated in the breed of Nederlandse Kooikerhondjes , named Kookers hereafter . Recently we characterized polymyositis in the Dutch Kooier dog breed . 25 in a random sample of the Kooizer dog breed and a genome-wide association study indicated the involvement of a region on chromosome CFA19 ( p = 4 . 81 ) . Postulating causality , the penetrance of the disease phenotype was estimated at 10-20% for homozygous dogs and 0 . 7 . 5 % for untreated dogs . Our results suggest that distant variants upstream of IL21/IL2 could also be important for human autoimmune diseases that have been found to be associated with the IL-21/IL2-chromosomal region .
Protein stability plays a crucial role in a variety of applications , such as food processing , therapeutics , and the identification of pathogenic mutations . In this work , we explore utilizing a mega-scale dataset to develop a protein language model optimized for stability prediction . ESMtherm is trained on the folding stability of 528k natural and de novo sequences derived from 461 protein domains and can accommodate deletions / insertions ; it can accommodate multiple-point mutations; and it generalizes to sequences distal from the training set . Our results highlight the need for large-scale stability measurements on a diverse dataset , mirroring the distribution of sequence lengths commonly observed in nature . Finally , We discuss our model's limitations compared to other state-of-the-art methods in generalizing to larger protein scaffolds ( e . g . protein domain structure ) .
Inhibitory killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors ( iKIRs ) are a family of inhibitory receptors that are expressed by natural killer ( NK ) cells and late-stage differentiated T cells . In T1D , variation in the Human Leucocyte Antigen ( HLA ) genes explains up to 50% of the genetic risk , indicating that T cells have a major role in T1 D etiopathogenesis . Recently , we reported that T cell-mediated control was enhanced by i KIRs in chronic viral infections . We hypothesized that in the context of autoimmunity where an enhanced T cell response might be considered detrimental , there would have an opposite effect . Our results were validated in an independent data set .
In the past decade , more than 30 human diseases have been identified that affect the cornea , including Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy ( FECD ) , which is the most common triplet-repeat mediated disease in humans . However , to date , it has only been established that this disease affects the eye , and it has been difficult to experimentally decipher the molecular mechanisms underlying this disease . Here we describe the global extent of altered splicing occurring within Exp+ and CTG18 . 1-expansions . We also identify rare ( minor allele frequency > 0 . 1 ) located within the ubiquitously expressed transcription factor encoding gene , TCF4 . Our study supports the hypothesis that at least two distinct pathogenic mechanisms , RNA toxicity and TCF 4 isoform-specific dysregulation , both underpin the pathophysiology of FE CD .
Rice ( Oryza sativa ) is a cereal crop that originated from tropical and subtropical regions . It is highly susceptible to low-temperature conditions compared to other cereal crops such as wheat ( Triticum aestivum ) and barley ( Hordeum vulgare ) . Direct seeding is employed to circumvent the labor-intensive process of rice transplantation , but this approach requires varieties with vigorous low- temperature germination ( LTG ) when sown in cold climates . We identified the quantitative trait locus qLTG11 from rice variety Arroz da Terra , which shows rapid seed germination at lower temperatures , using QTL-seq . Knocking out functional GF14h in a near-isogenic line ( NIL ) carrying the arroz daterra allele decreased LTG; whereas overexpressing functional LF14h increased LTG in Hitomebore , indicating that GF 14h is the causal gene behind qLTG11 . Our results suggest that a novel genetic strategy for direct seeding in cold regions is needed .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) relaxed circular DNA ( rcDNA ) is a double-stranded circular DNA genome derived from the reverse transcription of viral pregenomic RNA ( pgRNA ) . It is characterized by an 8-9 nucleotide-long terminal redundancy ( TR , or r ) on the negative ( - ) end of the negative strand DNA . The 5’ TR of ( – ) and both strands of cccDNA forms a duplex with the ( + ) DNA , while the 3’ TR forms recombinant , which is removed during covalently closed circular DNA formation . In this study , we have identified the 3' flap endonuclease Mus81 as a critical role in rbcDNA formation , along with the 5’ flap endONuCLEASE FEN1 . Our results shed light on the molecular peculiarities of HBV RcDNA and clcDNA structure and cleavage mechanisms , contributing to our understanding of the HBV replication cycle .
The efficiency of microbial fuel cells ( MFCs ) in industrial wastewater treatment is profoundly influenced by the bacterial community , which can be disrupted by variable industrial operations . However , comprehensive knowledge of the convergent community structure and pathways of adaptation is lacking . Here , we developed a microbe-microbe interaction genome-scale metabolic model ( mmGEM ) based on metabolic cross-feeding to study the adaptation of bacterial communities in MFC treating sulfide-containing wastewater from a canned-pineapple factory . We found that a shift from an SOB-dominant to MET-dominate community as organic loading rates increased , along with a decline in MCF performance . Our findings revealed constraints on SOB growth under H-OLRs , due to reduced sulphate-sulfed ( S ) cycling and acetate cross-fed metabolites from SRB were diverted to methanogens facilitating their competitive dominance . The insights gained will inform the development of effective strategies for implementing MFC technology in real-world industrial environments .
Machine learning ( ML ) is increasingly being used to guide biological discovery in biomedicine such as prioritizing promising small molecules in drug discovery . However , when applied to unseen situations , these models can be overconfident and produce a large number of false positives . One solution to address this issue is to quantify the model’s prediction uncertainty and provide a set of hypotheses with a controlled false discovery rate ( FDR ) pre-specified by researchers . We propose CPEC , an ML framework for FDR-controlled biological discovery , which integrates a deep learning model and a statistical tool known as conformal prediction , providing accurate and FDR controlled function predictions for a given protein enzyme . In addition to protein function annotation , we demonstrate its effectiveness using enzyme function annotation as a case study , simulating the discovery process of identifying the functions of less-characterized enzymes in the training data .
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by mutations in the gene coding for the protein TAR DNA-binding protein of 43 kDa ( TDP-43 ) , which can cause some cases of familial inherited ALS ( fALS . ) We show for the first time that the heat shock responsive chaperone Hsp90 has been shown to interact with the protein and stabilize its normal conformation; however , it is not known whether this interaction contributes to neurotoxicity in vivo . We also find that loss of function of HSP-90 protects against TDP–43 neurotoxicity and subsequent neurodegeneration in adult animals . In this study , we show that loss or inhibition of the HSP90 chaperon protects from the accumulation of toxic TDP+43 species in neurons and other central nervous system cells , potentially by blocking the degradation pathways in which these chapertones are involved .
Animals have a wide range of morphologies and reproductive modes , including oocyte differentiation , maturation and resumption of meiosis . However , our understanding of the molecular pathways that regulate oogenesis and define cellular identity in the Arthropod female reproductive system and the extent of their conservation is currently very limited . We use single-nucleus RNA and ATAC sequencing to produce a comprehensive single nucleus atlas of the adult Artemia franciscana ovary , shedding light on the conserved regulatory programs between the two distantly related Artrophod species .
Chronic pain is a common symptom of chronic pain , which is debilitating and expensive to manage , costing the United States alone around $600 billion in 2010 . The specific mechanisms remain unclear , and we use neural firing rate models to describe the activity of populations of excitatory and inhibitory interneurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord . We find that disruption of E-I balance generally occurs either due to downregulation of inhibitory signaling so that excitators are  released’’ from inhibitory control , or due to upregulation of excitation neuron responses so that excitation neurons  escape . These results suggest specific hypotheses about diverse mechanisms that may be most likely responsible for allodynia , thus offering predictions for the high interindividual variability observed in allodymia and identifying targets for further experimental studies on the underlying mechanisms of this chronic pain disease .
Protein homeostasis relies on the accurate translation and folding of newly synthesized proteins . Mutations in human eEF2 result in neurological disorders or developmental defects , including non-specific craniofacial dysmorphisms , abnormal brain morphology , and an autosomal dominant form of spinocerebellar ataxia . In this study , we investigated the requirement for Hsp90 and cochaperones in yeast . We found that the Hsc82 isoform of Hsgh1 has two distinct roles in regulating the folding of new protein molecules . The Hssp900 mutants that mimic disease-associated mutations in human Hst1 were negatively impacted by deletion of the gene encoding Hgh 1 and growth of one mutant was partially rescued by overexpression of HgH1 . Our results provide further evidence that Hsf90 contributes to proteostases not just by assisting protein folding , but also by enabling accurate translation of newly synthesised proteins , which is dictated by a unique posttranslational modification on the ribosome .
In social contexts , humans typically combine individual preferences for the options at stake with individual valuation of social information . However , it remains unclear how such decisions are made when these preferences are inaccessible or disrupted , as might be the case for individuals confronting novel options or experiencing cognitive impairment . Here , we examined participants with lesions in the insular or dorsal anterior cingulate cortex , key regions implicated in risky decision-making . Participants in both lesioned control and focal insula groups played a gambling task where choices were made both alone and after observing others’ choices . For socially situated decisions , these participants showed increased conformity with the choices of others , independent from social utility-based computations . These findings suggest that following others’ options may be a heuristic for decision- making when utility-bounded risk processing is disrupteD .
Biomorphs , the iconic model of morphological evolution , are traditionally used to demonstrate the power of natural selection to generate biological order from random mutations . Many of these patterns can be explained with an analytic model based on constrained and unconstrained sections of the genome . Here we show that biomorphs exhibit phenotype bias , a type of developmental bias where certain encodings can be many orders of magnitude more likely than others to appear through random mutation . This bias is formalised by an information-theoretic principle that can be intuitively understood from a picture of evolution randomly searching in the space of algorithms . Moreover , this bias exhibits a strong preference for simpler structures with low descriptional complexity K  ( p ) . The main aim of this paper will be to analyze what the GP map can tell us about the generation of genetic order , and test the hypothesis that this iconic model also exhibits simplicity bias and other patterns similar to those observed for molecular genotype-phenotyp maps .
Humans can intuitively tune into system dynamics and excite motions that the system prefers intrinsically . However , it has been found that many nonlinear systems exhibit periodic orbits similar to the eigenmodes of linear systems . This human sensitivity to resonance has been experimentally supported for interactions with simple linear systems but remains a challenge to validate in more complex scenarios where nonlineal dynamics can not be predicted analytically . In a user study consisting of three experiment parts , participants commanded differently configured virtual double pendula with joint compliance through a haptic joystick . The task was to alternately hit two targets , which were either aligned with the NNM ( Experiment 1 and 2 ) or purposefully arranged offset . Our findings emphasize the human ability to apply control strategies to excite and exploit resonant motions in dynamic object interactions , including possibly shaping the dynamics through changes in muscle stiffness .
The bacterium Bacillus subtilis is a highly nutrient-disruptive organism that is capable of surviving in a new environment . It is able to respond to environmental cues with appropriate timing and magnitude of response , but the extent to which transcriptional regulation is at the core of bacterial physiology remains to be fully elucidated . Here , we demonstrate two transcription factors , ScoC and AbrB , along with the MarR-family transcription factor PchR negatively regulate pulcherrimin production during exponential phase . We further establish the roles of the three transcription factors in direct regulation of gene expression utilizing in vitro DNA binding assays and provide evidence that ScoC can bind directly to the yvmC promoter . Together our results establish a model where pulmonary iron sequestration contributes to its anti-oxidative effects by limiting Fenton chemistry , providing evidence as an important antioxidant in cells .
Neurogenic bladder dysfunction is a common condition in patients with spinal cord injuries ( SCIs ) . In some cases , the detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia ( DSD ) and incontinence are caused by the loss of coordinated neural control among the muscles controlling the bladder , which increases bladder pressure to facilitate urination , and urethral sphincer and pelvic floor muscles that control the bladder outlet to restrict or permit bladder emptying . We created a computational model of the neural circuit of micturition based on Hodgkin-Huxley equations that replicated normal bladder function . The model replicated the re-emergence of a spinal voiding reflex after SCI , whereas high-frequency TMS ( 30 Hz ) enhanced urinary storage . Our model reproduced the improved coordination between the de Trusor muscle and the sphencter muscles that has been observed clinically . These results demonstrate that both neuronal and network modifications of lumbar interneurons are essential to understand the mechanisms whereby TMS reduces bladder dysfunction after a SCI and provide a more diverse set of spinal responses to intrinsic and extrinsic activation of spinal internurons .
The ability to accurately measure fungal growth is essential for the development of effective treatments for severe fungal infections . However , automated large-scale collection of such data lies beyond the scope of most clinical microbiology laboratories . In this paper , we propose a mathematical model to estimate morphology-specific growth rates from easy-to-collect , but indirect , optical density ( OD600 ) data of Aspergillus fumigatus growth ( filamentous fungus ) . Our method accounts for OD 600 being an indirect measure by explicitly including the relationship between the indirect OD measurements and the calibration of true fungal morphological growth in the model . We also overcame observed discrepancies between morphologie-specific rates inferred from OD60 versus directly measured data in reference models that did not include calibration . This paper demonstrates that our model outperforms the reference models at fitting to and predicting OD6000 growth curves and overcamve observed discrupties between microbial growth-specific rate inferences from FDI data versus direct measured data .
Beetles are the most species-rich group of animals and harbor diverse karyotypes . Most species have XY sex chromosomes , but X0 sexe determination mechanisms are also common among some groups . In addition , we generate a whole-chromome assembly of Tribolium confusum , which has a neo-sex DNA , and utilize eleven additional beetle genomes to reconstruct kARYOtype evolution across Coleoptera . These nihilistic sext chromas evolve the stereotypical properties of sx chromates , including the evolution of dosage compensation and a non-random distribution of genes with sen-biased expression . We identify ancestral linkage groups , termed Stevens elements , that share a conserved set of genes across beetes .
Chromatin structure and DNA accessibility are partly modulated by the incorporation of histone variants . Z , encoded by the non-essential HTZ1 gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae , is an evolutionarily conserved H2A histone variation that is predominantly incorporated at transcription start sites by the SWR1-complex ( SWR-1-C ) . We also observed that apo-SWR1–C contributes to gene expression defects in the htz1 mutant , particularly for genes involved in phosphate homeostasis regulation . In addition , Z incorporation was important for proper upregulation of several HU-induced genes , a more substantive role for Z . Our data showed that H2B . H2C substrate ( apo–SWR-1–C ), as H2 A .Z , was required for proper gene expression during HU exposure . Moreover , as H 2A .
Single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNASeq ) is a major source of information for the study of developmental biology . It has become challenging to explore and annotate single-cell transcriptomic profiles by hand . However , due to the fast accumulation of datasets and the high dimensionality of the data , it has become difficult to classify individual cell profiles into the various cell types and identify the lineage relationship for individual cells . To overcome this challenge , automated classification methods are needed . We study and extend when needed state-of-the-art multi-class classification methods , such as SVM , kNN , prototype-based , logistic regression and ensemble methods . Our results show that these extensions enable to learn from partially annotated data .
The RNA content is crucial for the establishment of nuclear compartments , such as nuclear speckles and nucleoli , and is involved in RNA polymerase I/II transcription . In this study , we unveiled the RNA-dependent PIP2-associated ( RDPA ) nuclear proteome in human cells by mass spectrometry . We found that intrinsically disordered regions ( IDRs ) with polybasic PIP2 binding K/R motifs are prevalent features of nuclear proteins . Our results show for the first time that the RBPA protein Bromodomain-containing protein 4 ( BRD4 ) associates with PIP2, and that altered levels affect their ability to form foci presumably via phase separation . Thus , our results suggest the pivotal role of PIP2/RNA cooperation in the formation of a functional nuclear architecture competent for gene expression .
The Scarabaeinae , or true dung beetles , are a species-rich clade of insects recognized for their highly diversified nutrition-responsive development including that of cephalic horns-evolutionarily novel , secondary sexual weapons that exhibit remarkable intra- and interspecific variation . Phenotypic plasticity is thought to be an important driver of diversification and adaptation to environmental variation , yet the genomic mechanisms mediating plastic trait development and evolution remain poorly understood . Here , we present chromosome-level genome assemblies of three dung ( Onthophagus taurus , O . sagittarius ) species in the tribe Onthofaheimini . We then compare chromatin accessibility in developing head horn tissues of high- and low-nutrition O , and identify distinct cis-regulatory architectures underlying nutrition- compared to sex-responsive developmental , including a large proportion of recently evolved regulatory elements sensitive to horn morph determination . Comparing these assemblies to those of seven other species across the order Coleoptera identifies evolutionary changes in coding sequence associated with metabolic regulation of plasticity and metamorphosis .
Lassa virus ( LASV ) is transmitted to humans through contact with its natural reservoir , the peridomestic rodent Mastomys natalensis , or material contaminated with the excreta of these rodents , but alternative reservoirs have also been described . In this study , we used a cynomolgus monkey model of LASV infection reproducing the different outcomes of the disease , to investigate the dynamics and tropism of the virus in these animals . We found that the virus replication in SLOs is followed by systemic dissemination to almost all organs and diverse cell types , leading to infiltrations with macrophages and neutrophils and an excessive inflammatory response , is associated with a fatal outcome . However , subsequent viral tropismic varies considerably with disease severity , with viral dissemination limited almost exclusively to lymphoid organs . These results provide new insight into early viral dynamics and the host response to LASV and the events enabling some patients to control LASV as well as leading to catastrophic illness and death in others .
Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by a lack of cellular and biochemical mechanisms that contribute to the progression of the disease . In this study , we report four key findings that shed light on the upstream causal role of Importin--specific nuclear transport defects in disease onset . First , using two novel mouse models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) , frontal temporal dementia and frontal lobar degeneration ( FTDFTLD ) and Alzheimer’s and Alzheimer's Related Dementias ( AD/ADRD ) as well as two novel human models of NEMF neurodegeneration ( NemfR86S and NemFR487G ) we find a nuclear import block . Second , cytoplasmic mis-localization and aggregation of multiple proteins implicated in the pathogenesis of ALS/FTD , including TDP43 , Importine- , Ran-GTPase , and RanGAP1 . Our convergent results between mouse and human neuronal and non-neuronal cellular biology provide mechanistic evidence that many of the mis-located proteins and dysregulated transcriptional events seen in multiple neurodegenerative disorders may in fact arise primarily from a primary upstream defect in Importi- nuclear import . These findings have critical implications for investigating how sporadic forms of neurodegeneration may arise from presently unidentified genetic and environmental perturbations in importin– function .
Lytic bacteriophages are a promising candidate for medical and biotechnological applications . However , phages can resist Cas-mediated cleavage through extensive DNA modifications like cytosine glycosylation , hindering mutagenesis efficiency . CRISPR-Cas systems offer a way to explore these mechanisms through the generation of mutants . In this study , we apply a eukaryotic enzyme NgTET to temporally reduce the abundance of 5ghmdC within the phagocytosin genome to enable the specific and efficient targeting of phagele DNA with CRIS PR-CAs , thus enabling the precise targeting of the bacterial genome . We elucidated the effects of these modifications on T4 phagocyte infections without necessitating gene deletions in the model organism . Our results present a strategy enabling precise DNA targeting and seamless point mutation integration , as exemplified by deactivating specific ADP-ribosyltransferases crucial for phagome infection .
The genome of living cells has become a major challenge due to DNA lesions that interfere with cellular processes such as transcription and replication . A manifold of mechanisms act in concert to ensure adequate DNA repair , gene expression , and genome stability upon UV irradiation . Here , using a genetic screen in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae , we identified histone variant H2A . Z as an important component to safeguard transcription and DNA integrity following UV illumination . In the absence of this histone , repair by transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair ( TC-NER ) is severely impaired and RNA polymerase II clearance reduced , leading to an increase in double-strand breaks . Using a genomic screen in S . cereviae for mutations leading to increased sensitivity to 4-nitroquinoline oxide ( 4-NQO ) , our results suggest that RNAPII might remain trapped on DNA in UV-irraumated htz1 cells .
The pervasiveness of gene expression variation and its contribution to phenotypic variation and evolution is well known . However , there remains much to learn about how this genetic variation affects the evolution of regulatory architecture among closely related tissues during population divergence . To address this question , we analyzed gene expression in the midgut , hindgut and Malpighian tubule as well as microbiome composition in the two gut tissues in four Drosophila melanogaster strains and their F1 hybrids from two divergent populations: one from the derived , European range and one from an ancestral , African range . We found extensive tissue- and genetic background-specific effects , including effects of genetic background on overall tissue specificity . Tissue-specific effect was typically stronger than genetic background effect , although the two intestinal tissues were not more similar to each other than to the Mal Pighian tubulars . This observation was robust across tissues and genetic backgrounds , suggesting that the expression of trans variation can be spatially fine-tuned and or better than cis variation during population diversification .
The first human SARS-CoV-2 infection is often unknown , but information on early cases can be used to date it . In this study , we extend this approach to use a larger set of early reported cases to estimate the delay from first infection to the Nth case . We then apply our model to data on COVID-19 cases with symptom onset before mid-January 2020 . Our results fall within ranges previously estimated by studies relying on genomic data .
The meiosis process involves the formation of gametes , a prerequisite for sexual reproduction . In this study , we have developed an agent-based model for homolog pairing derived from the dynamics of a naturally occurring chromosome ensemble . The model simulates unidirectional movements of chromosomes ( i . e . agents ) , as well as collision dynamics determined by attractive and repulsive forces arising from close-range physical interactions . This model accurately recapitulates the efficiency and kinetics of homologous pairing observed for wild-type and mutant meiotic prophase I in budding yeast , and can be adapted to nucleus dimensions and other organisms . Dissociation of non-homologous associations also appears to contribute to pairing by crowding homologs into a limited nuclear area , thus creating preconditions for close–range homolog attraction .
Li-Fraumeni syndrome is caused by mutations in the TP53 gene , a gene that is highly conserved and syntenic between zebrafish and humans . MiR-34a is a p53 target and modifier gene . In this study , we show that miR-334a and miR-434b/c have similar expression timing in development , but the lack of miR-217H/R217H or tp53-/- mutants were more cancer-prone than tP53 mutants alone . DNA damage by camptothecin led to induction of microRNAs , while miR-33a mutants with a gain-of-function tpm53R219H/ R217M or mRNA loss-offunction mutants are more cancer prone than mutants . Interestingly , miR334a-/– compound mutants had normal DNA damage-induced apoptosis , although the absence of tm53-induced miR34a promotes tumorigenesis in cancer-susceptible backgrounds . Our results suggest that the miR/334a family is tumor suppressors and may be a potential target for a new therapeutic strategy .
Sex determination in the nematode C . elegans is controlled by the master regulator XOL-1 during embryogenesis . In males , Xol-1 is highly expressed and in hermaphrodites XO is expressed at very low levels . Further analyses revealed that XOC-1 is responsible for regulating the timing of initiation of dosage compensation on the X chromosomes and the appropriate expression of sex-biased transcriptional programs . Our study reveals that xoL-1 plays an important role as a developmental regulator in embryos of both sexes . We found that a loss of xOL-1 results in significant changes in the transcriptional profile of these early embryos without affecting gene expression programs , and that the loss of met-2 acts as an downstream effector of XOG-1 activity in the embryos with a higher rate of cell division .
Genetic surveillance of mosquito populations is becoming increasingly relevant as genetics-based mosquito control strategies advance from laboratory to field testing . Especially applicable are mosquito gene drive projects , the potential scale of which leads monitoring to be a significant cost driver . To this end , we present MGSurvE ( Mosquito Gene SurveillancE ) , a computational framework that optimizes trap placement for genetic surveillance of malaria vector populations such that the time to detection of an allele of interest is minimized . This entails the need to distribute mosquito traps efficiently such that an Allele of Interest is detected as quickly as possible-ideally when remediation is still viable . Furthermore , insecticide-based tools such as bednets are compromised by insecticide resistance alleles for which there is also a need to detect as quickly As a result , mosquito gene surveillance will be required to monitor the effectiveness of the strategy at field sites , as has been done for previous self-limiting genetic control projects . We describe how to set up , run and interpret output from MGSURvE , and provide examples of trap placement optimization for an Aedes aegypti population in a suburban landscape in Queensland , Australia and an Anopheles gambiae population on the island of So Tomé , Só Tomé and Prncipe . Further documentation and use examples are provided in project's documentation .
Symbiomonas scintillans is a small , heterotrophic microbial eukaryote . The genus was named based on the presence of endosymbiotic bacteria in its endoplasmic reticulum , however , unlike most such endosombiotic bacteria neither the identity nor functional association with its host were known . We generated both amplification-free shotgun metagenomics and whole genome sequencing data from two strains of S . scintalans , but were unable to detect any sequences from known lineages of prasinoviruses . Using the BpV genome as a reference , we assembled a near-complete 190 kbp draft genome encoding all hallmark  Prasinoviridae genes , as well as two additional incomplete assemblies of closely related but distinct viruses from RCC257 , and three similar draft viral genomes of RCC24 , which we collectively call SsVs , . In addition , transmission electron microscopy also revealed a virus-like particle similar the morphology and size of the endosome originally reported in S , suggesting that endobacteria may be associated with giant viruses .
The leomodin ( Lmod ) family of actin-binding proteins play a critical role in muscle function , highlighted by the fact that mutations in all three family members ( LMOD1-3 ) result in human myopathies . Most of the disease-causing mutations are nonsense , or frameshift , mutations predicted to result in expression of truncated proteins . However , in nearly all cases of disease , little to no LMORD protein is expressed . Here we show here that nonsense-mediated mRNA decay , a cellular mechanism which eliminates nRNAs with premature termination codons , underlies loss of mutant protein from two independent disease-triggering mutations involving the limb-specific isoform , and that , as a result , mutant protein is lost . We generated steric-blocking oligonucleotides that obstruct deposition of the exon junction complex , thus preventing nonsense mediating a degradation of mutant transcripts and thereby restoring mutant protein expression . Our study lays the initial groundwork for potential therapeutic intervention in LDMT-linked myopathieses .
The apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) polymorphisms modify the risk of Alzheimer's disease . We measured changes in the proteome homeostasis in transgenic mice expressing a human ApoA1 gene ( isoform 2 , 3 , or 4 ) . In the brain , we found that ApoAE4 and ApoEF2 both lead to modified regulation of mitochondrial membrane proteins relative to the wild-type control ApoF3 . Our findings underscore the utility of combining protein abundance and turnover rates to decipher proteome regulatory mechanisms and their potential role in biology .
The Drosophila neuromuscular junction is a powerful model for studying many biological processes , such as axon maintenance . Tissue-specific gene knockout by CRISPR/Cas9 has recently emerged as another powerful approach for characterizing gene functions during development . In this study , we present a tissue-specific CRIS PR toolkit for knocking out genes in motor neurons , glia , and somatic muscles , the three cell types of the Drosquito neuromusculal junction ( NMJ ) . We used CRIPR-TRiM to discover an essential role for SNARE components in NMJ maintenance , which we demonstrated by knocking multiple redundant genes in each tissue . Furthermore , our results demonstrate that the canonical ESCRT pathway suppresses NMJ bouton growth by downregulating retrograde Gbb signaling . Thus , here we have successfully developed an NMJ CRISP mutagenesis approach which we used to reveal genes important for NMJ structural plasticity .
Reactive Oxygen Species ( ROS ) is a major metabolic signal for progenitor differentiation . ROS triggers the activation of JNK ( c-Jun Kinase ) , which upregulates fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) to facilitate progenitors differentiation in the blood-forming organ/lymph gland of the larvae . In this study , we show that the Drosophila NF-B transcription factor Relish ( Rel ) protects the progenitoritors from the metabolic pathway that inducts them into the differentiation program by curtailing JNK activation . Our study sheds light on how , during development , integrating nuclear factor–B-like factors with metabolic pathways seem crucial to regulating cell fate transition during development and cellular fate transition .
TALS is a rare genetic disease characterized by severe microcephaly with abnormal gyral pattern , severe growth retardation and bone abnormalities . Its transcript , the small nuclear RNA U4atac , is involved in the excision of 850 minor introns . In this study , we report a patient presenting with TALS but no pathogenic variants were found in RNU4ATAC , instead the homozygous RTTN c . 2953A > G variant was detected by whole-exome sequencing . Altogether , these defects contributed to a marked delay of rosette formation in RRPE1 cells and patient fibroblasts and revealed major cell cycle and mitotic abnormalities leading to aneuploidy , cell cycle arrest and cell death . We discovered an additional function of RTTEN in the self-organisation of neural stem cells ( NSC ) derived from CRISPR/Cas9-edited induced pluripotent stem cells , by observing delayed apico-basal polarization of neural rosettes . Overall , our results establish how the mutated allele affects the rttn protein function at centrosome .
The evolution of bacterial species is largely deterministic , most frequently following the same paths , or whether evolution tends to be far less predictable , due in part to frequent contingencies , making it impossible to “replay life’s tape” . In this paper , we show that E . coli continuously adapts genetically , up to six years under resource exhaustion , through the highly convergent accumulation of mutations . We also show that upon entry into LTSP , long-lasting lineages are established .
Several genes are encoded by the male-specific abdominal ( MSA ) RNA from the Drosophila melanogaster bithorax complex . Although previously classified as a non-coding RNA , the MSA transcript is actually protein coding and has recently been shown to code for a micropeptide that plays a vital role in determining how mated females use stored sperm after mating . Here , we show that the absence of iab-8 translation is due to a repressive mechanism requiring the two unique 5’ exons of the ib-8 lncRNA . Using cell culture and transgenic analysis , We show that this mechanism relies on the presence of upstream open reading frames present in these two exonses that prevent the production of proteins from downstream opening frames . However , while the MS A transcript produces a small peptide , it seems that the ab 8 transcript does not .
Congenital disorders of glycosylation ( CDG ) is a genetic disorder that affects approximately 80% of the world’s population . Genetic mutations in these genes cause a variety of clinical symptoms , including seizures , hypotonia , and developmental delay . In this study , we use evolution as a tool to identify common genetic modifiers between CDG and glycosilation genes . We found strong evolutionary rate signatures between proteins in the same and different glycosic pathways . Genome-wide analysis of proteins showing significant ERC with GPI anchor synthesis proteins revealed strong signatures with ncRNA modification proteins and DNA repair proteins . Functional testing of the highest scoring candidates validated genetic interactions and identified novel genetic modifier genes of CDG genes , which could provide a better understanding of disease pathophysiology and novel therapeutic targets .
The HBV core ( HBc ) protein contains an N-terminal domain ( NTD ) for capsid assembly and an arginine-rich C-terminAL domain ( CTD) for pregenomic RNA ( pgRNA ) encapsidation . The CTD is essential for nucleation with the polymerase ( Pol ) to initiate the encapsulation of pregenous RNA . During the progressive stages of pyRNA packaging , the CTD undergoes dephosphorylation , suggesting the involvement of a phosphatase in this process . We generated a C-S170 antibody specific for non-phosphorylated HBV Core ( HBV ) at Ser170 , which allowed us to observe a transition from phosphorylating to a dephosphorized state during ptRNA packaging into the capsidas . Our findings not only decipher the mechanism by which Pol-mediated dephosphorylation of HBC regulates pmRNA packaging in the capsissions , but also reveal the possibility of PP1 as a potential target for antiviral development .
Bacterial symbionts of animals can potentially adapt to changing environments more rapidly and more flexibly than their hosts due to traits such as shorter generation times and capacity for horizontal gene transfer ( HGT ) between distantly related organisms . However , the role of bacterium , with their short generation times , and ability to metabolize carbon and inorganic nitrogen , play a critical role in allowing marine organisms to cope with environmental change . The closure of the Isthmus of Panama created distinct environmental conditions in the Tropical Eastern Pacific ( TEP ) and Caribbean , offering a  natural experiment’ for studying how closely related animals evolve and adapt under environmental changes . We sequenced the genomes of endosymbiotic bacteria in two sets of sister species of chemosymicrobial bivalves from the genera Codakia and Ctena ( family Lucinidae ) collected on either side of the isthmus , to investigate how divergent environmental conditions have influenced the selection of bacterial species and their metabolic capabilities . Reconstructing the evolutionary history of the nifHDKT operon by including other lucinid sYmbiont genomes from around the world further revealed that the last common ancestor ( LCA ) of Ca .
The TAS2R family is a family of G protein-coupled receptors that function as bitter taste receptors in vertebrate lineages . In most species , TAS1R genes are found in clusters; compared to other vertebrata , amphibians have additional clusters and more genes per cluster . However , the evolution and functional implications of these receptors for other vertebrates remain largely unknown . Here , we identify 9 , 291 TAS2-Rs from 661 high-quality vertebrat genomes . We find that frogs and salamanders contain unusually high TAS3R gene content , in stark contrast to other feces . Interestingly , total TAS4R count is proportional to the receptors expressed solely in extra-oral tissues . Our results reveal that many amphibian TAS2/Rs function as tissue-specific chemosensors to detect ecologically important xenobiotics , and that many of these TAS/Rs are capable of responding to classic human bitterants .
A tri-protein complex containing NICD , RBPj and MAML1 binds DNA as monomer or as cooperative dimers to regulate transcription in the off-state . Intestinal stem cells ( ISCs ) reside at the bottom of the crypts , marked by the expression of leucine rich repeat containing G protein-coupled receptor 5 ( Lgr5 ) , achaete-scute family bHLH transcription factor 2 ( Notch dimerization-deficient alleles ( NDD ) of Notch1 and Notch2 are sensitized to environment-mediated insults but otherwise develop and age normally . To test the assumption that HDAC2 activity contributes to Notch loss-of-function phenotypes we used the broad acting HDAC2-inhibitor Valproic acid ( VPA ) and discovered it could block the intestinal consequences of NDD as well as gamma secretase inhibitor treatment ( DBZ or DAPT ) in mice and spheroids , suggesting synergy between HDAC activity and pro-differentiation program in intestinal stem cells . Transcriptomic analysis of colonic spleen cells uncovered no evidence of dimer-dependent target gene miss-regulation , confirmed impaired stem cell maintenance in-vitro , and discovered an elevated signature of epithelial innate immune response to symbionts .
Background selection , by which selection on deleterious alleles reduces diversity at linked neutral sites , influences patterns of total neutral diversity , T , and genetic differentiation , FST , in structured populations . Previous work has quantified the effects of background selection on  T and FST only for deletion allele , but this has not been fully explained . Here , we derive a novel theory to predict the effects on background selection experienced by a subpopulation and extend previous theory from the interference selection regime to make predictions in an island model . We show that this theory best predicts FST under sufficiently high migration rates , because migration reduces correlated effects on fitness over generations within subpopulas .
Increasing genetic and phenotypic data size is critical for understanding the genetic determinants of diseases . However , the real utility of data can only be realized when large sample sizes and more diverse populations are available to identify salient genetic variants . Using a federated statistical testing approach , we developed FedGMMAT , a tool that utilizes a common statistical testing method for efficient association tests that can correct for confounding fixed and additive polygenic random effects among different collaborating sites . As the sample sizes become more heterogeneous , complex statistical approaches , such as generalized linear mixed effects models , must be used to correct for the confounders that may bias results . On the other front , due to the privacy concerns around Protected Health Information ( PHI ) , genetic information is restrictively protected by sharing according to regulations such as Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ( HIPAA ) ( a regulatory framework that prohibits sharing of genetic data between institutions ). Using simulation and real datasets , We demonstrate that FedGMmat can achieve the virtually same results as pooled analysis under a privacy-preserving framework with practical resource requirements . We also believe that the two-stage significance estimation is advantageous from a Privacy preserving perspective because the overall problem is modularized in specific steps of null model fitting and variant scoring where covariates and genotype information is used in different stages of the problem .
Prostate cancer is a heritable disease with ancestry-biased incidence and mortality . However , it is imperative that risk scores work equally well across populations in order to limit disparities . In this study , we benchmark the predictive power of six widely used PRS derivation algorithms against prostate cancer cases and controls from the UK Biobank and All of Us cohorts . We find modest improvement in discriminatory ability when compared with a simple method that prioritizes variants , clumping , and published polygenic risk scores . Our findings underscore the importance of improving upon risk prediction algorithms and the sampling of diverse cohorts for equitable use .
The disease DPAGT1-CDG is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the first enzyme in N-linked glycosylation . This enzyme is involved in the N-glycosylation pathway where these sugars are added to specific asparagine residues , typically part of the canonical consensus sequence N-X-S/T where X is a non-proline amino acid . However , both of these treatments are palliative , and there remains a great need for better therapeutics for the multisystemic symptoms in DPA GT1–CDG . One solution to find new therapeutics is drug repurposing which use drugs that are already approved or under investigation . In this study , we used a Drosophila rough eye model of D PAGT1–CDG with an improperly developed , small eye phenotype . We identified 42 candidate drugs that improved the DPATT1-CDG model . Notably , loss of dopamine synthesis and recycling partially rescued the model , suggesting that Dopaminergic flux and subsequent binding to D2 receptors is detrimental under DPATC1 deficiency . These drugs and subsequent analyses reveal novel biological interactions in DPR1 mechanisms and may represent new therapeutic options for DPACT1-CCDG , a rare disease that requires immediate clinical approval .
Proprioception is a fundamental sense of movement . It is one of the least understood senses , yet fundamental for the control of movement in the brain . We developed a topographic variational autoencoder with lateral connectivity ( topo-VAE ) to compute a putative cortical map from a large set of natural movement data . Although not fitted to neural data , our model reproduces two sets of observations from monkey centre-out reaching: 1 . The shape and velocity dependence of proprioceptive receptive fields in hand-centered coordinates despite the model having no knowledge of arm kinematics or hand coordinate systems . Our model provides a principled basis for understanding of sensorimotor representations and the theoretical basis of neural manifolds with applications to the restoration of sensory feedback in brain-computer interfaces and control of humanoid robots .
Ethylene is a plant hormone involved in many aspects of plant growth and development as well as responses to stress . However , only a small number of studies have examined the role of ethylene in microbes . Here , we demonstrate that Azospirillum brasilense contains a functional ethylene receptor that we call AzoSpirilum EthYlene Response1 ( AzoEtr1 ) after the nomenclature used in plants . Our data suggest a model in which ethylene from host plants alters the density of colonization by A . bristilense and re-wires its metabolism , suggesting that the bacterium implements an adaptation program upon sensing ethylene . One result is the accumulation of poly-hydroxybutyrate . RNA sequencing and untargeted metabolomics showed that ethylene causes wide-spread metabolic changes that affect carbon and nitrogen metabolism . Treating cells with ethylene or disrupting the receptor reduces biofilm formation and colonization of plant root surfaces .
Mammalian gametogenesis involves the division of diploid germ cells that undergo homologous chromosome synapsis and recombination to generate haploid gametes . The meiotic division of spermatocytes undergoes modifications by several DNA damage repair ( DDR ) factors such as BRCA1 , ATR , and its activator TOPBP1 at the unpaired ( asynapsed ) chromosome axes . During pachynema , DNA double-strand breaks ( DSB ) factor no longer localize to autosomes , indicating the completion of the sex chromatin remodeling complex . In this study , we explored the role of INO80 in silencing genes in male mice . We found that INO 80 immunolocalization at the XY body in pachytene spermocytes suggested a role for INO8 in the meiosis sexe body . Subsequent deletion of ITO80 resulted in high expression of sx-linked genes . This role of Ino80 is independent of a common INO40 target , H2A . Z .
Injured neurons need to receive accurate and timely information about the extent of axonal damage to successfully increase their intrinsic growth capacity and regenerate . The ability of neurons to regenerate after injury is determined by a complex interplay between their intrinsic growth program and external cues . Recent studies have identified the JNK MAP kinase ( MAPK ) signaling pathway as a key intrinsic regulator of regeneration . In this study , we demonstrate that SVH-1 , a growth factor belonging to the HGF/plasminogen family , is required for the activation of the pathway for regeneration , and that CDD-2 plays a role in the functional conversion of svh-1 . We find that the codon exchange of His-755 to Tyr in the Asp-His-Ser catalytic triad of SVHT-1 can suppress the cdd-2 defect in aXon regeneration by transforming the function of VSH-1 from a proteases to a grow factor . These results suggest that a switch mechanism that converts SVh-1 from an proteasease to -amino acid , which is essential for catalysis , into a plasminogenic-like protein .
Zebrafish collective behaviour is widely used to assess their physical and mental state , serving as a valuable tool to assess the impact of ageing , disease genetics , and the effect of drugs . The essence of these macroscopic phenomena can be represented by active matter models , where the individuals are abstracted as interactive self-propelling agents . In a few cases , the system may be controlled at the level of the individual constituents such as the interactions between colloidal particles , or the enzymatic behaviour of de novo proteins . Here , we challenge this scenario in a biological context by genetically modifying zebrafish . We show that the collective behaviour of wildtype and col11a2 -/- fish are captured with a simple active matter model , in which the mutant fish are modelled by self-propulsion agents with higher orientational noise on average . Surprisingly , a group of 25 mutant fish exhibited more orderly collective motion than the wildtype .
Capillary plexus cultivation is crucial in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine . Theoretical simulations have been conducted to supplement the expensive experimental works . However , the mechanisms connecting mechanical and chemical stimuli remained undefined , and the functions of the different VEGF forms in the culture environment were still unclear . In this paper , we developed a hybrid model for simulating short-term in vitro capillary incubations . We used the Cellular Potts model to predict individual cell migration , morphology change , continuum mechanics to quantify the biogel deformation and vegf transport dynamics . By bridging the mechanical regulation and chemical stimulation in the model , our results showed good agreement between the predicted network topology and experiments , in which elongated cells connected forming the network cords and round cells gathered , creating cobblestone-like aggregates .
The Transforming Growth Factor beta ( TGF- ) family consists of numerous secreted peptide growth factors that play significant roles in cell function , tissue patterning , and organismal homeostasis , including wound repair and immunity . As in vertebrates , these ligands can be divided into bone morphogenetic protein ( BMP ) and TGF–/Activin subfamilies that predominantly signal through discrete signaling pathways . In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans , there are only five BMP-like ligANDs . Here we demonstrate that all five TGF+--ligand pairs function independently of each other in the immune response , while TIG-2 and TIG-3 act nonredundantly as part of this response . Structural modeling supports the potential for the BMP–like ligads to form heterodimers . These results demonstrate a novel potential for BMP and TF-–activin subfamily to interact and may provide a mechanism for distinguishing the developmental and homeostatic functions of these lipids from an acute response such as the innate immune response to bacteria .
The DNA damage response ( DDR ) is a crucial cellular process that safeguards genome integrity . In yeast , the DDR is mediated by the epigenetic modifier N-terminal acetyltransferase 4 ( Nat4 ) , which acetes the alpha-amino group of serine 1 on histones H4 and H2A . Here , we show that nat4-deleted yeast cells exhibit lower levels of the damage-induced modification H2AS129ph ( H2A in the vicinity of the double-strand break ) and decreased binding of the checkpoint control protein Rad9 surrounding the double strand breaks . Importantly , NAT4 gene expression is elevated , and the enzyme is specifically recruited at double- Strand breaks , critical for the deposition and retention of Rad9 . Consequently , Mec1-dependent phosphorylation of downstream effector kinases Rad53 , indicative of DNA damage checkpoint activation , is reduced .
Phylogenies describing the evolutionary history of genetically heterogeneous subpopulations of cells from the same cancer can reveal important evolutionary events , help to characterize the cancer's heterogenity and progression , support the discovery of new driver mutations , and provide clinical insight for treatment regimens . Many methods exist that reconstruct cancer phylogeny using point mutations detected with bulk DNA sequencing . However , these methods can become inaccurate when reconstructing a partially built cancer , or , in some cases , fail to recover a phenotype altogether . Here , we introduce Orchard , an algorithm that is fast and accurate using up to 1 , 000 mutations and uses up to 1000 mutations to reconstruct a fully built cancer tree . We show that the large and accurate reconstructions reconstructed by OrcharD are useful for identifying patterns of somatic mutations in distinct cancer cells . Additionally , our results demonstrate that the larger , accurate , reconstrued phylograms are useful to identifying the patterns of genetic variation among distinct cancer cell subpopulates and to guide treatment strategies for certain hematological diseases .
Neoantigen immunogenicity prediction is a challenging problem in the development of personalised medicines . It is based on a combination of pMHC binding affinity , eluted ligand prediction and TCR context information . ImmugenX , an architecture for protein language modelling , is able to predict peptide-MHC-TCR specificity from paired pmHC-tCR triplets . The model is compared with state-of-the-art models for each task , with a 7 % increase in average precision compared to the next best model . We show that ImmutenX outperforms all compared models on pPMCHC immunogeneticity prediction ( Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve = 0 ) .
Meat is a primary indicator of meat quality and is characterized mainly into lightness , redness and yellowness . In this study , we used the genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) and gene-based association analysis with whole-genome resequencing of 230 fast-growing white-feathered chickens to map genes related to meat lightness and redness to a 6 . We found that inhibition of PPP1CC decreased the expression of typical slow-twitch myofiber and myo fiber-type specification genes and enhanced the glycolysis pathway . Functional validation through a plasmid reporter assay revealed that a SNP located in the intron of the protein phosphatase 1 catalytic subunit gamma was associated with meat color ( P = 8 ) . The causal relationships between PPP1/CC expression and meat lightity/redness were further validated through Mendelian randomization analyses ( P  2 . 65E-08 ) for the novel target gene and variant that can aid in the innovation of meat improvement technology .
The retina is a complex system of neurons that respond to various stimuli , including white noise . The ganglion cells of the retina respond strongly to spatially structured stimuli that are characterized by a nonlinear transmission of signals from bipolar cells , which thereby constitute functional subunits within a receptive field . In this study , we introduce a novel method to identify the layout of subunit structures within ganglon cells . This method combines the functional principles underlying stimulated emission depletion ( STED ) microscopy and tomographic imaging such as computed tomography ( CT ) scans , and we accordingly term it super-resolved tommographic reconstruction ( STR ) as a technique to efficiently stimulate and locate subunit layouts within only a few tens of minutes of recording time . Simulations demonstrate that this approach can reliably identify subunit locations across a wide range of model variations , making it ideal for online analysis and closed-loop investigations of relective field substructure in retina recordings .
Identifying genes that interact with exposure to antibiotics can yield insights into drug targets and mechanisms of action or resistance . To capture this interaction , we propose a novel statistical method called CRISPRi-DR ( for Dose-Response model ) that incorporates both sgRNA efficiencies and drug concentrations in a modified dose-responses equation . This approach can be generalized to non-CGI datasets , which we show via an E . coli growth on different carbon sources . The objective is to identify CRISpiri mutants whose relative abundance is suppressed ( or enriched ) in the presence of a drug when the target protein is depleted , reflecting synergistic behavior . We observe that the most efficient srRNAs are not always optimal for detecting synergies with drugs . However , for noisier datasets some of these methods generate far more significant interactions , likely including many false positives . CRISPRI-DR maintains higher precision ,which we observed in both empirical and simulated data . In addition , the performance is competitive with the best of several related analytical methods .
Gene co-expression networks are a major source of biological information , and they are often structured in more complex ways than previously thought . We use a recently developed community detection method , the weighted degree corrected stochastic block model ( SBM ) , that does not assume that assortative modules exist . Instead , SBM attempts to efficiently use all information contained in the gene expression network to separate the genes into hierarchically organized blocks of genes . The SBM uses a power transformation of the correlation between gene expression ( or a topological similarity measure built with these transformed correlations ) as a comparable measure of similarity that is then separated into assortativa modules using hierarchical clustering . In this study , we show that the SBM is able to find ten times as many groups as competing methods , but that ( b ) several of those gene groups are not modular . This suggests that the transcriptome is structured in a more complex way than traditionally thought and that we should revisit the long-standing assumption that modularity is the main driver of the structuring of gene co–expression networks .
The cytoplasmic poly ( A ) -binding protein ( PABPC ) is thought to be involved in multiple steps of post-transcriptional control , including translation initiation , translation termination , and mRNA decay . We have used mass spectrometry to assess the abundance of the components of the yeast proteome , as well as Ribo-Seq to analyze changes in the abundance and translation of the fermented yeast transcriptome . Cells devoid of PAB1 also manifest a nonsense codon readthrough phenotype indicative of a defect in termination . Collectively , our results indicate that , unlike the loss of simpler regulatory proteins , elimination of cellular Pab1 is profoundly pleiotropic and disruptive to numerous aspects of post transcriptional regulation .
Neuronal bursts of activity are commonly attributed to ion channels with slow kinetics . These are thought to arise from network-level mechanisms , involving synaptic interactions and delays , or from intrinsically bursting neurons . However , it is not clear whether these mechanisms arise from networks-level processes , such as synapses and delays or intrinsicly bursting cells . Here , we explore an alternative mechanism generically available to all neurons with class I excitability . This mechanism is based on the interplay of fast-spiking voltage dynamics with a one-dimensional slow dynamics of the extracellular potassium concentration , which is mediated by the activity of the Na+/K+-ATPase . We show that this coupling suffices to generate a hysteresis loop organized around a bistable region that emerges from a saddle-node loop bifurcation . The identified minimal mechanistic model outlining the sodium-potassium pump's generic contribution to burstant dynamics can , therefore , contribute to a better mechanistical understanding of pathologies such as epilepsy syndromes and , potentially , inform therapeutic strategies .
Many cancer subtypes are characterized by different prognostic outcomes , which are often overlooked . In this study , we present a novel R-package , designed to evaluate multi-view clustering methods for single- and multi-omic data . The framework is based on a combination of state-of-the-art clustering algorithms , such as similarity networks , kernel-based approaches , dimensionality reduction , and pathway knowledge integration . Our approach contrasts data- and knowledge-driven multiple-view Clustering methods and incorporates cross-fold validation for robustness . We applied our approach to multi-omics data across seven cancer types , including breast , prostate , or lung . Affinity Network Fusion , Integrative Non-negative Matrix Factorization , Multiple Kernel K-Means with linear or Pathway Induced Kernels were the most stable and effective in discerning groups with significantly different survival outcomes in several case studies .
The development of multicellular organisms requires well-orchestrated interplay between cell-intrinsic transcription factors and cell-cell signaling . One set of highly conserved transcription factors that plays diverse roles in development is the SoxC group . SEM-2 is essential for embryonic development , and for specifying the sex myoblast ( SM ) fate in the postembryonic mesoderm , the M lineage . We have identified a novel partial loss-of-function sem-2 allele that has a proline to serine change in the C-terminal tail of the highly conservedescribed DNA-binding domain . Detailed analyses of mutant animals harboring this point mutation uncovered new functions of SEM-1 in the M . lineage and for the proliferation and diversification of the M-lineage lineage through the expression of hlh-8 , which encodes a basic helix-loop-helix Twist transcription factor . Furthermore , our work identified new interactions in the gene regulatory network ( GRN ) underlying C .
