The gambiense human African trypanosomiasis ( gHAT , sleeping sickness ) is a fatal vector-borne disease , which is transmitted by tsetse to humans . In the last two decades , the intensification of intervention activities against the fatal vector borne disease has led to a large decline in the number of annually reported cases . However , pockets of infection remain , and it becomes increasingly important to quantitatively assess if different regions are on track for elimination , or where intervention efforts should be focused . We present a previously developed stochastic mathematical model for gHAT in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( DRC ) and show that this same formulation is able to capture the dynamics of gHIT observed at the health area level ( approximately 10 , 000 people ) . This suggests that expanding health area fitting , to cover more of the DRC should be done with deterministic fits for efficiency , but with stochistic projections used to capture both the parameter and stocchastic variation in case reporting and elimination year estimations . The spatial heterogeneity in cases is reflected in modelling results , where we predict that under the current intervention strategies the health zone of Kinzamba II will have the latest expected year for EoT .
Tumor microenvironments ( TMEs ) contain vast amounts of information on patient's cancer through their cellular composition and the spatial distribution of tumor cells and immune cell populations . Moreover , in the face of a large number of cell interactions to consider , we often wish to identify specific interactions that are useful in making such predictions . We present an approach to achieve these goals based on summarizing spatial relationships in the TME using spatial K functions , and then applying functional data analysis and random forest models to both predict outcomes of interest and identify important spatial relationships . The proposed method is shown to be effective in simulation experiments at both identifying important spatial interactions while also controlling the false discovery rate .
Neuronal synchronization is a common feature of many brain disorders , including Parkinson’s disease , Alzheimer’s , and Alzheimer’z disease . In this study , we combine a network of excitatory integrate-and-fire ( LIF ) neurons with different types of synaptic weight and/or structural plasticity mechanisms . We show that the strength of contacts from neurons with higher natural firing rates to those with lower rates and the weakening of contacts in the opposite direction , followed by selective removal of weak contacts , allows for strong synchrony with fewer connections . The latter require stimuli of significantly higher intensity to achieve long-term desynchronization . Our results may inform future pre-clinical and clinical studies with invasive or non-invasive stimulus modalities aiming at inducing long-lasting relief of symptoms , e . g .
Many animals can regenerate large missing regions of their nervous system , requiring mechanisms to restore the pattern , numbers , and wiring of diverse neuron classes . In planarians , neurons and glia are regenerated from distinct progenitors . Although many neoblast classes have been described to be of neuroepithelial origin ( ectoderm ) , in most organisms a subset of mesoderm-like phagocytic progenitor cells do not display overt fate specification programs associated with one of their final fate outcomes , raising the possibility that some signaling mechanism between the nervous system and phagocytes could specify glial cells . Here , we describe a model in which patterned expression of a Delta protein in particular neurons interacts with Notch-expressing , dispersed phagotic progenins to accomplish coordinated regeneration of planarian neuron-glia architecture . Our results suggest a mechanism for coordinated regeneration , of numbers and pattern of cell types . Loss of several delta-2-expressing neuron class prevented differentiation of the glian associated with them , but transplantation of delta-2–expressing photoreceptor neurons was sufficient for glii formation at an ecotopic location . This study provides a new understanding of how planarian neurons and/or glioblasts are regulated in a coordinated manner .
In this study , we characterized early gamma-delta (  ) T cell responses starting from pre-acquisition and during acute HIV infection ( AHI ) in RV217 individuals previously identified as 'broad' and 'non-broad ' neutralizers . We found significant differences in  T cell surface marker expression in participants that developed neutralization breadth compared to those that did not . In addition , the levels of CD16 on V1+ T cells were associated with early production of founder virus Env-specific IgM . Thus , T cells may promote development of neutralization loafth , which has implications for HIV vaccine strategies .
The spread of cancer from organ to organ ( metastasis ) is responsible for the vast majority of cancer deaths; however , most current anti-cancer drugs are designed to arrest or reverse tumor growth without directly addressing disease spread . Bispecific antibodies ( BsAbs ) , which combine two different antigen-binding sites into one molecule , are a promising modality for drug development due to their enhanced avidity and dual targeting effects . Here , we describe a quantitative , computational model of the BS1 bispecific antibody , exhibiting how modeling multivalent binding provides key insights into antibody affinity and avidity effects and can guide therapeutic design . We present detailed simulations of the monovalent and bivalent binding interactions between different antibody constructs and the IL-6 and IL-8 receptors to establish how antibody properties and system conditions impact the formation of binary ( antibody-receptor ) and ternary ( receptor-antibody-recognition ) complexes . Our model results demonstrate how the balance of these complex types drives receptor inhibition , providing important and generalizable predictions for effective therapeutic design in a variety of preclinical mouse models of cancer .
During acentrosomal spindle assembly in C . elegans oocytes , microtubule minus ends are sorted outwards away from the chromosomes where they form poles; then these outward forces must be balanced to form a stable bipolar structure . Here , we have gained insight into this question through studies of ZYG-8 , a conserved doublecortin-family kinase; the mammalian homolog of this protein is upregulated in many cancers and has been implicated in cell division , but the mechanisms by which it functions are poorly understood . In this study , our findings reveal new roles for this protein and provide insights into how a centrosomal spindles are stabilized to promote faithful meiosis .
Type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) is a common , complex disease , with a prevalence that is expected to increase dramatically , and for which the genetics has been largely described through genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) meta-analysis efforts . In this study , we investigate the interplay between genetics , metabolomics , as well as the risk of T2d in the UK Biobank dataset using the Nightingale panel composed of 249 metabolites , 92% of which correspond to lipids ( HDL , IDL , VLDL ) and lipoproteins . We find 79 metabolite with causal association to T2C , all spanning lipid-related classes except for Glucose and Tyrosine . Secondly , using an interaction quantitative trait locus ( QTL ) analysis , We describe four metabolities consistently replicated in an independent dataset from the Estonian Biobank , for which genetic loci in two different genomic regions show attenuated regulation in cases compared to controls . By integrating these data with large-scale T2M GWAPs from the DIAMANTE meta-analyse through Mendelian randomization analyses , our findings provide a map of the consequences of T2-D on the genetic regulation of metabolte levels and on their genetic regulation .
The pathogen Staphylococcus aureus is a major cause of concern because it spreads easily and can cause opportunistic infections , ranging from mild skin infections to severe life-threatening conditions . In this study we identify host genes involved in tolerance after S . aureu infection , using a MRSA susceptible strain ( CC061 ) and a tolerant strain ( C024 ) . Survival after MRSA infection in the F1 and F2 generations was 65% and 55% and followed a complex dominant inheritance pattern for the CC014 phenotype . We hypothesize that C5a may have altered binding to variant receptors in CC024 mice and resulting in the ability to tolerate a higher pathogen burden and longer survival . Colonization in F2 animals was more extreme than in their parents , suggesting successful segregation of genetic factors .
The tempo and mode of adaptation depends on the availability of beneficial alleles . However , the extent to which networks affect adaptation remains largely unknown . In this study , we model a quantitative trait as the product of a simple gene regulatory network , a negative autoregulation motif . We found that both models harbored distributions with fewer large-effect beneficial allels than expected . This behavior is reminiscent of the cost of complexity , where correlations among traits constrain adaptation . Our results suggest that the interactions emerging from genetic networks can generate complex and multimodal distributions of fitness effects .
A fundamental function of cortical circuits is the integration of information from different sources to form a reliable basis for behavior . While animals behave as if they optimally integrate information according to Bayesian probability theory , the implementation of the required computations in the biological substrate remains unclear . In this paper we propose a novel , Bayenian view on the dynamics of conductance-based neurons and synapses which suggests that they are naturally equipped to optimally perform information integration . We formally demonstrate that under these assumptions the somatic compartment naturally computes the corresponding posterior . These are parametrized by local quantities , reversal potentials and membrane conductances . Furthermore , we make experimentally testable predictions on Bayean dendritic integration and synaptic plasticity .
Protein structure prediction has been widely used across several large protein sets . We describe the detection and cataloging of domains from 48 whole proteomes deposited in the AlphaFold Database . Using our Evolutionary Classification of Protein Domains ( ECOD ) from experimental structures as a basis for classification , we describe the identification and catalogion of 746 , 349 domains in 536 , 808 proteins comprised of over 226 , 424 , 000 amino acid residues . In addition , to containing a higher fraction of disordered regions and unassigned domains , eukaryotes show a greater proportion of repeated proteins , both globular and small repeats ; and , on average , it can provide positive classification ( either of domain or other identifiable non-domain regions ) for 90% of residues in all proteome . Finally , the implication of these results for protein target selection for future classification strategies for very large protein set .
BK polyomavirus ( BKPyV ) is a major cause of kidney transplant failure , for which there are no antivirals . The current model is that the virus expresses TAg ( large T antigen ) early during infection , promoting cells to enter S phase where the viral DNA can access the host replication machinery . By using inhibitors that only affect host and not viral replication , we show that both TAG expression and viral production rely on an initial S phase . We found that these subsequent rounds of replication of the host DNA relied on canonical host cell cycle machinery and regulators despite BKV infection . Together , these findings suggest a model for polyomalavirus replication .
Transcriptome-wide association studies ( TWAS ) have gained significant popularity in the field of genetics as they are capable of integrating gene expression mapping studies with genome-wide associations studies ( GWAS ) to uncover potentially causal associations between genes and traits . However , these fine-mapping methods have primarily focused on modeling quantitative traits and examining local genomic regions , leading to potentially suboptimal performance . Here , we present FABIO , a TWAS fine-Mapping method specifically designed for binary traits that is capable of modeling all genes jointly on an entire chromosome . We performed extensive simulations and applied it for in-depth analyses of six binary disease traits in the UK Biobank . FABO effectively controls false discoveries while offering substantial power gains over existing TWAAS fine-mating approaches . Overall , FABOBo represents an effective tool for TWAs fine-measuring of disease traits , which can be applied for multiple diseases , including asthma , ABCG2 , and SH2B3 .
Protein oxidation is a major cause of toxicity in cells . When misfolded proteins evade quality control , they can be sequestered to specific sites within cells to prevent the potential dysfunction and toxicity that arises from protein aggregation . In this study , we show that Btn2 and Hsp42 act to sequester oxidized proteins into defined PQC sites following ROS exposure and their absence leads to an accumulation of protein aggregates . We have identified the Sup35 translation termination factor as an in vivo sequestrase substrate and show that prion formation occurs at multiple intracellular sites during oxidative stress conditions in the absence of sequesterase activity . Our data identify protein sequestration as a key antioxidant defence mechanism that functions to mitigate the damaging consequences of protein oxidations-induced aggregations .
Glioblastoma ( GBM ) is the most common and aggressive adult primary malignant brain tumor , with an estimated annual incidence of 17 , 000 new cases per year in the USA . The majority of GBM patients also invariably experience tumor recurrence with increased chemo- and radio-resistance , and there is no standardized second line of management after initial adjuvant treatment . Standard of care treatment includes surgical resection , chemotherapy with temozolomide ( TMZ ) and radiation therapy , but despite the available therapeutic options , mean survival remains at about 12 to 15 months and the five-year survival rate at 5 . 01 .
The brain has been proposed to assign probabilistic models to sequences of stimuli . It has been classically conjectured that the brain assigns probability models to sequential sequences . In neuroscience , clustering procedures have been applied solve challenges such as categorizing average EEG signals collected in different experimental conditions , or finding temporal segmentation in the EEG signal recorded from participants at rest . We propose to address this issue by using a new clustering procedure for sets of electroencephalographic ( EEG ) data collected while participants were exposed to a sequence of auditory stimuli generated by a stochastic chain . Our results show that regions of the pre-frontal cortex of the brain effectively use the occurrence of a strong beat to identify the structure embedded in the sequence of stimulus , with a more predominant role of the right hemisphere . As a matter of fact , in the context tree model employed in , the strong beat appears regularly and its appearance is sufficient for the brain to predict the next auditory stimulus . By identifying natural groupings in data , Clustering analysis allows to identify patterns and relationships , which applications in pattern recognition , data compression , biological and medical research and social sciences .
Single-cell RNA-sequencing ( scRNA ) is a popular method to analyze gene expression and cellular composition at single-cell resolution . However , it harbors shortcomings: The failure to account for cell-to-cell variations of transcriptome-size ( i . e . the total number of transcripts per cell ) and also cell dissociation/processing-induced cryptic gene expression . To fix this problem , we propose a computationally calculated coefficient ,  cell type-specific weighting-factor ( cWF ) , to offset the transcriptome size- and cell decomposition/processING-induced problem . Our study provides an important method to solve critical limitations of stRNA-Seq analysis of complex solid tissues/organs . Furthermore , our findings suggest a diagnostic utility and biological significance of c WFs , which are useful for analyzing highly heterogeneous solid tissues .
Mendelian randomization ( MR ) is a statistical approach using genetic variants as instrumental variables to estimate causal effects of a single exposure on an outcome . MR and MVMR can be biased by the presence of pleiotropic genotypes in the set used as instrumental variable , violating one of the core IV assumptions . We present a radial formulation of MVMRI , and an adapted Galbraith radially plot , which allows for the estimated effect of each exposure within an MVRM analysis to be visualised . Radial MVMRC effectively visualises causal effect estimates , providing valuable diagnostic information with respect to the underlying assumptions of MR/MVMR . A RMVMR R package is presented as accompanying software for implementing the methods described . In combination with simulated examples , we highlight how important features of VMMR analyses can be explored using a range of tools incorporated within the RMVMRI R package .
Animal behavior spans many timescales , from short , seconds-scale actions to daily rhythms over many hours to life-long changes during aging . In this study , we use a deep learning framework SLEAP to produce a full-body postural dataset for 47 individuals resulting in nearly 2 billion pose instances . We identify stereotyped behaviors such as grooming , proboscis extension , and locomotion and use the resulting ethograms to explore how the flies’ behavior varies across timescale , revealing novel features that hint at unexplored underlying biological mechanisms .
Protein tyrosine phosphatases non-receptor type ( PTPNs ) have been studied extensively in the context of the adaptive immune system; however , their roles beyond immunoregulation are less well explored . Here we identify novel functions for the conserved C . elegans phosphataceous phosphoase PTNP-22 , establishing its role in nematode molting , cell adhesion , and cytoskeletal regulation . Through a non-biased genetic screen , we identified candidate interactors of this protein during development . We also identified a CDC42 guanine-nucleotide exchange factor DNBP-1 ( human DNMBP ) as an in vivo partner of PTWN-22 . Collectively , these studies highlight the utility of combined genetic and proteomic approaches for identifying novel gene functions .
The current malaria elimination targets in Southeast Asia must withstand a colossal challenge-resistance to the current gold standard antimalarial drug , namely artemisinin derivatives . We develop a geostatistical model of the presence of non-synonymous mutations in the Kelch 13 ( K13 ) gene , which are known to be associated with artemisine resistance , calibrated to the most comprehensive dataset available from the WorldWide Antimicrobial Resistance Network ( WWARN ) . Our maps of estimated prevalence show an expansion of the K13 mutation across the Greater Mekong Subregion from 2000 to 2022 . Moreover , the period between 2010 and 2015 demonstrated the most spatial change across the region . If artemiseinin resistance significantly expands to Africa or India , cases and malaria-related deaths are set to increase substantially .
Inflammasomes are essential components of the innate immune response . NLRP1 and CARD8 contain a unique function-to-find domain ( FIIND ) , which undergoes autoproteolysis to yield two noncovalently associated polypeptides: the N terminus ( NT ) and the C terminus . These proteins exist in various forms due to autopreteolysis within the FIAND domain , resulting in full-length ( FL ) or cleaved N-terminal ( TN )–CT complexes . However , the detailed mechanism remains elusive . Here , we utilized biochemistry approaches to characterize the autoinhibitory complexeses of CARD8, a rodent protein , and a murine protein . We found that both NFRP1 paralogs and rNLRP1/CARD8 form two conserved autoin inhibitory complexe involving NT–CT and FL–CT interactions , but with distinct mechanisms . Our study enhanced the understanding of the regulatory functions of NFIP-containing proteins in inflammasomal activation and activation , underscored the complexity of their interactions within the immune system .
Defects in protein homeostasis can induce proteotoxic stress , affecting cellular fitness and , consequently , overall tissue health . In various growing tissues , cell competition based mechanisms facilitate detection and elimination of these compromised , often referred to as ‘loser’ cells by the healthier neighbors . Here , we reveal the function of an endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) and Golgi localized protein Rer1 in the regulation of protein homeostatics in the developing Drosophila wing epithelium . Our results show that loss of Rr1 leads to proteotoxicity and PERK-mediated phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 alpha ( eIF2 ) . Furthermore , when surrounded by wild-type cells , the clonal population of rer1 mutant cells attained the loser fate and were eliminated specifically via the process of cell competition; thus , our findings provide a novel regulator of proteostatic stress and reveal its role in competitive cell survival .
The checkpoint kinase gene CHEK2 is a key regulator of the immune system and is associated with increased risk of breast and other cancers . Loss of function mutations in the checkpoint protein , CHK2 , has been shown to be associated with higher risk of cancer . However , most of the 3 , 188 unique amino acid changes that can result from non-synonymous single nucleotide variants ( SNVs ) have not been tested for their impact on the function of the chek2-enocded protein . Here we used a high throughput technique of deep mutational scanning ( DMS ) to test all but two of the 4 , 887 possible changes in the open reading frame for their ability to complement RAD53 mutants using a low throughput method . The results correlate well with previous structure and function data and provide a first or additional functional assay for all the variants of uncertain significance identified in clinical databases . Combined , this approach can be used to help predict the pathogenicity of CHECK2 variants that are found in susceptibility screening and could be applied to other cancer risk genes .
Human pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae forms multiple epigenetically and phenotypically distinct intra-populations by inversions of DNA methyltransferase hsdS genes in the colony opacity-determinant ( cod ) locus . Because spontaneous variations frequently occur during bacterial growth in the number of the AT di-nucleotides in the promoter region of the spxA1-tenA operon , this locus acts as a programmed genetic switch that generates pneumococcal subpopulation with epigenetic and phylogenetic diversity . Here , we report our finding of the SpxA-1-TenA toxin-antitoxin ( TA ) system that regulates the orientations of hexamer inversion orientations , thereby bacterial epigenome and associated traits ( e . g . colony phase ) by targeting pneumotic protein synthesis . We found that overexpression of toxine TenA led to growth arrest in E .coli and enhanced autolysis in S . pneumoniae , and the antitoxin SpXA1 repressed the transcription of the cod locus and reshaped the bacterial genome . Our findings provide new insights into how the pathogen controls the hxdS inversion patterns and thereby the resulting colony phases .
High-dimensional data have become ubiquitous in the biological sciences , and it is often desirable to compare two datasets collected under different experimental conditions to extract low-dimensional patterns enriched in one condition . Contrastive principal component analysis ( cPCA ) has been proposed to address this problem , but it has seen little adoption because it requires tuning a hyperparameter resulting in multiple solutions , with no way of knowing which is correct . Here we describe the development of generalized contrastive PCA , a flexible Hyperparameter-free approach that solves these problems . We first provide analyses explaining why c PCA requires a parameter and how it avoids this requirement . Secondly , we describe an open-source toolbox for Python and MATLAB implementations of several variants of gcPCAA tailored for different scenarios . Finally , our results reveal unsupervised detection of hippocampal replay in neurophysiological recordings and heterogeneity of type II diabetes in single-cell RNA sequencing data . As a fast , robust , easy-to-use comparison method , this method provides a valuable resource facilitating the analysis of diverse high-dimensional biological data to gain new insights into complex biological phenomena .
B cell receptor signaling is required for the survival and maturation of B cells and is deregulated in B cell lymphoma . We have developed a quantitative network analysis of BCR signaling using systematically perturbed phosphorylation data of BL-2 and BL-41 cells . The models unveiled feedback and crosstalk structures in the BCR network , including a negative crosstalk from p38 to MEK/ERK . In addition , the trained network was also suited to model BCR and CD40 signaling in different BL cells , indicating that BCR aberration does not cause a major downstream rewiring .
Notch is a ubiquitous receptor that is essential for tissue growth and maintenance . It is regulated by two principal counterposed mechanisms: intercellular Notch transactivation triggered by interactions between receptors and ligands expressed in neighbouring cells; intracellular cis inhibition mediated by liganders binding to receptors expressed within the same cell . In this study , we explore the molecular basis of the opposing actions of the Notch ligans , DLL4 and JAG1 , which control angiogenic sprouting . We propose a new model of Notch signalling that recapitulates the formation of tip and stalk cells necessary for sprouting angiogenesis .
Clustering is widely used in bioinformatics and many other fields , with applications from exploratory analysis to prediction . Many types of data have associated uncertainty or measurement error , but this is rarely used to inform the clustering . We present Dirichlet Process Mixtures with Uncertainty ( DPMUnc ) , an extension of a Bayesian nonparametric clustering algorithm which makes use of the uncertainty associated with data points . In this work , we present a method for generating a summary of 3 gene signatures on a dataset different to the one where it was discovered , which incorporates a measure of the variability in expression across signature genes within each individual . DPMunc separates autoimmune from autoinflammatory diseases and isolates other subgroups such as adult-onset arthritis . The significance of this work is two-fold .
Deep neural networks have been remarkably successful as models of the primate visual system . However , they fail to account for the strong shape-dependence of primate vision . We design simple , artificial image datasets in which shape , color , and texture features can be used to predict the image class . By training networks from scratch to classify images with single features and feature combinations , we show that some network architectures are unable to learn to use shape features , whereas others are able to use shapes in principle but are biased towards the other features . This suggests that different learning algorithms with sparser , more local weight changes are required to make networks more sensitive to shape and improve their ability to describe human vision , which is a major challenge for deep neural networks .
Hepatic stellate cells ( HSCs ) are the source of extracellular matrix ( ECM ) whose overproduction leads to fibrosis , a condition that impairs liver functions in chronic liver diseases . In this study , we developed rule-based models to study HSC dynamics during reversion and reversal . We used the Kappa language rewriting language to overcome temporal explosion . Our model describes the interactions between all cell populations and molecules such as transforming growth factor  1 ( TGF1 ) which induces HSC activation and promotes secretion of type I collagen , the main component of ECM and a key component of the ECM remodeling . By analyzing RNA sequencing data from patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis ( NASH ) associated with liver fenotypes , our model confirmed this accumulation , and identifies iHSCs as novel markers of fibrosion progression . Using new experimental data from a mouse model of CCl4-induced liver fibrosilicosis and validation of the predicted ECM dynamics , We demonstrated the model's sensitivity to ( Tgf1) parameters , suggesting its adaptability to a variety of pathophysiological conditions for which levels of (TGF1/) production associated with the inflammatory response differ . Overall , this study provides the first model of HSC dynamic in hepatic disease that can be used to explore the regulatory role of eukaryotic fibroblasts in liver homeostasis in other tissues .
High-dimensional mediation analysis is a critical analytical approach focused on evaluating the mediating role of molecular phenotypes , such as gene expression , in the relationship between environmental exposure/risk factor and health outcomes . Large-scale genomic consortia ( TOPMed ) program , comprise multiple cohorts with diverse technologies to elucidate the genetic architecture and biological mechanisms underlying complex human traits and diseases . We have developed a novel meta-analysis framework , allowing for both fixed-effects and random-effect estimation , to estimate the total mediation effect in high-dimensional settings . The proposed method is available in R package MetaR2M on GitHub . Our extensive simulations showed that the proposed method was more computationally efficient and yielded satisfactory operating characteristics comparable to analysis of the pooled individual-level data when there was no inter-study heterogeneity .
The identification of the driver genes responsible for tumorigenesis is a crucial step in designing effective cancer treatments . Although many computational methods have been developed with this purpose , the majority of existing methods solely provided a single driver gene list for the entire cohort of patients , ignoring the high heterogeneity of driver events across patients . In this study , we propose a novel method ( PDRWH ) , which aims to prioritize the mutated genes of a unique patient based on their impact on the abnormal expression of downstream genes across a group of patients who share the co-mutation genes and similar gene expression profiles . We also validated one of our predicted novel personalized driver genes on tumor cell proliferation by vitro cell-based assays . The personalized driver profiles could improve tumor stratification , providing new insights into understanding tumor heterogenity and taking a further step toward personalized treatment .
The Virtual Epileptic Patient ( VEP ) is a computer-based representation of a patient with epilepsy that combines personalized anatomical data with dynamical models of abnormal brain activity . The approach utilizes SaCeSS , a cooperative metaheuristic algorithm capable of parallel computation , to yield high-quality solutions without requiring excessive computational time . Through extensive benchmarking on synthetic data , our proposal successfully solved a set of different configurations of VEP models demonstrating better scalability and superior performance against other parallel solvers . Additionally , we added a scalable uncertainty quantification phase after model calibration , and used it to assess the variability in estimated parameters across different problems . Overall , this study has the potential to improve the estimation of pathological brain areas in drug-resistant epilepsia , thus to inform the clinical decision-making process .
Tuberculosis ( TB ) , the disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculoses ( Mtb ) is a major health problem with 10 . 6 million cases of the disease and 1 . 8 million deaths in 2021 . The kinetics of bacterial growth in the lung of patients or animals such as monkeys or rabbits remain largely unknown . We performed experiments with rabbits infected with a novel , virulent clinical MtB isolate of the Beijing lineage , HN878 , carrying an unstable plasmid pBP10 . In our in vitro experiments we found that the bacterial population in the lungs of Mn878-infected rabbits did not follow an expected monotonic decline; the percent of cellular cells increased between 28 and 56 days post-infection and remained stable between 84 and 112 days post–infection . Mathematical modeling suggested that such a non-monotonic change in the percentage of cytoplasmic bacterial cells can be explained if the lung Mn88878 population consists of several ( at least 2 ) sub-populations with different replication/death dynamics: one major population expanding early and being controlled/eliminated , while another a smaller population expanding at later times causing a counterintuitive increase in the percent
Glycans and glycoproteins modulate key biological functions . However , experimental structure determination of sugar polymers is notoriously difficult . In this work , we developed a glycan-modeling algorithm that computationally builds complex carbohydrates layer-by-layer , using adaptive kernel density estimates ( KDE ) of common carbohydrate conformations derived from data in the Protein Data Bank ( PDB ) and quantum mechanics ( QM ) calculations . We employed these tools to design de novo gycan trees into a protein nanoparticle vaccine to shield regions of the scaffold from antibody recognition , and experimentally verified shielding . Structures predicted by GlyCanTreeModeler agreed with native structures at high accuracy for both de novon modeling and experimental density-guided building . This work will inform glycoprotein model prediction , glcan masking , or further aid computational methods in experimental structural determination and refinement .
In the fungus Penicillium oxalicum , the ubiquitin-protein ligase SCF ( Skp1-Cullin-F-box ) complex directly recognizes the target substrate via interaction between the F-box protein and the substrate . The SCF complex is composed of three invariable core components , namely the scaffolding protein Cullin 1 ( CUL1 ) and the S-phase kinase-associated protein 1 ( SCF ) . A small portion of PoFbx23 is present in free form within the nucleus . PoAce1 is a dysfunctional form that no longer binds promoters of the target gene . Under glucose signal , Pofbx 23 is absent . During cellulose signaling , transcription levels of ( hemi ) cellulases genes are significantly upregulated . Deleting the Pofcx23 gene does not affect Poace1 gene transcription but results in the remarkable accumulation of all versions of the PoAace1 protein .
BM is an essential structural element of tissues , and its diversity participates in organ morphogenesis . The basement membrane ( BM ) is a specialized extracellular matrix forming a complex sheet-like architectural meshwork that lines most of animal tissues . However , the traffic routes associated with BM formation and the mechanistic modulations explaining its diversification are still poorly understood . Here , we determined the specific molecular identity and cell exit sites of BM protein secretory routes . Drosophila melanogaster follicular epithelium relies on a basement membrane composed of oriented BM fibrils and a more homogenous matrix . Rab10 promotes lateral and planar-polarized secretion , whereas Rab8 promotes basal secretione , leading to the formation of a fibril-like matrix , respectively . We also found that the dystrophin-associated protein complex ( DAPC ) and Rab10 were both present in a tubular compartment containing BM proteins . When both routes were abolished , production was fully blocked; however , genetic interactions revealed that these two routes competed . Altogether , these results highlight important mechanistically important aspects of the basement membrane and illustrate how BM diversity can emerge from the spatial control of distinct traffic routes , which are largely mediated by the spatial regulation of different traffic routes and the interaction between the two pathways .
In the context of HIV-1 , the ability to predict HIV-1 resistance to broadly neutralizing antibodies ( bnAbs ) is an important goal for the treatment of this disease . However , it is not clear how b-nave models can be trained using resistance outcomes for multiple antibodies at once , a strategy called multi-task learning ( MTL ) . We developed a new model and show that , beyond the boost in performance in some cases , MTL also helps address the previous two challenges . One challenge is that some HIV-1 subtypes in currently available training datasets are underrepresented , which likely affects models' generalizability across subtype types . Here we demonstrate empirically that MTL can mitigate bias against underrepresented subtype compositions , and MTL allows the model to learn patterns of co-resistance to combinations of antibodies , thus providing tools to predict antibodies' epitopes and to potentially select optimal combinations of antibodys . com/iaime/LBUM , can be adapted to other infectious diseases that are treated with antibody therapy .
Multiple myeloma ( MM ) is a hematological disease exhibiting aberrant clonal expansion of cancerous plasma cells in the bone marrow . Most previous models were constructed at the gene level , ignoring the fact that the dysfunction of the pathway is closely associated with disease development and progression . In this light , the present study explored two strategies that construct predictive models by taking pathway information into consideration: pathway score method and group lasso using pathway information . We implemented these methods in microarray data for MM and obtained a candidate model with the best prediction performance in interval validation . The candidate model is further compared with the gene-based model and previously published models in two external data . Vax ( grp ) also outperformed the previously published model . Our computational workflow can also serve as a comprehensive guidebook for future studies where prior knowledge needs to be incorporated into predictive models .
Mitochondrial hyperfission in response to cellular insult is associated with reduced energy production and programmed cell death . This is a critical need to understand the molecular mechanisms coordinating and regulating the complex process of mitochondrial fission . We develop a nonlinear dynamical systems model of dynamin related protein one ( Drp1 ) -dependent mitochondrial Fission and use it to identify parameters which can regulate the total fistision rate ( TFR ) as a function of time . The TFR defined from a notdimensionalization of the model undergoes a Hopf bifurcation , where M is the total concentration on Mff , and k+ , k , or M are the association and dissociation rate constants between oligomers on the outer mitochondrial membrane . Although the nondimensionalization results in four dimensionless parameters , we found the TFR and the cumulative total fisson ( TF ) depend strongly on only one of them . Interestingly , the cumulative TF does not monotonically increase as  increases . Thus , understanding the impact of regulatory parameters such as “ ” may assist future therapeutic target selection .
Genetic polymorphisms in wild populations may limit the spread of gene drive alleles , and the position effect profoundly influences Cas9 activity . In this study we constructed a 3-gRNA homing gene drive system targeting the recessive female fertility gene Tyrosine decarboxylase 2 ( Tdc2 ) in fruit pest Drosophila suzukii , a notorious fruit pest . Our study revealed only a low level of transmission in the germline , but feeding octopamine restored the egg-laying defects in mutant females allowing easier line maintenance than for other suppression drive targets . We also tested the efficacy of a similar system in D . melanogaster and constructed additional split drive systems by introducing promoter-Cas9 transgenes to improve hominity efficiency . This study highlights the potential of conditionally rescuing the female infertility caused by the gene drive , offering a valuable tool for the industrial-scale production of gene driven transgenic insects .
The brain is not only constrained by energy needed to fuel computation , but it is also constrained to form memories . In biology networks are often much larger than the task requires , yet vanilla backprop prescribes to update all synapses . However , learning a task like MNIST to 95% accuracy appears to require at least 108 synaptic updates . Thus competitively restricting plasticity helps to save metabolic energy associated to synaptical plasticity . We explored the energy required for learning in feedforward neural networks . Using a parsimonious energy model , we propose two plasticity restricting algorithms that save energy . First , only modify synapes with large updates , and second , restrict plasticity to subsets of synapets that form a path through the network . Our results might lead to a better understanding of biological plasticity and a more match between artificial and biological learning .
During natural or engineered genome streamlining , deletion of many non-essential genes in combination often reduces bacterial fitness for idiosyncratic or unknown reasons . We investigated how and to what extent laboratory evolution could overcome these defects in six variants of the transposon-free Acinetobacter baylyi strain ADP1-ISx that each had a deletion of a different 22- to 42-kilobase region and two strains with larger deletions of 70 and 293 kilobases . Mutations in the global post-transcriptional regulators rnd ( ribonuclease D ) , csrA ( RNA-binding carbon storage regulator ) and hfq were frequently mutated across all strains . Fitness increased in all cases that were examined except for two ancestors that each failed to improve in one of the two environments . More generally , our results demonstrate that fitness lost during gene streamlining can usually be regained rapidly through laboratory evolution and that recovery tends to occur through a combination of deletion specific compensation and global regulatory adjustments .
In a wide range of biological processes , precise regulation of gene expression is essential to understand . Control over gene expression can be achieved using site-directed recombinases and endonucleases . However , their efficiency is variable and dependent on the genomic context . To circumvent this issue , an artificial Schistosoma mansoni hammerhead ribozyme , called T3H48 , which displays a dramatic increase in cleavage rate has recently been engineered . We first use a GFP reporter assay to assess the efficiency of several natural self-cleaving RNA cleaves , and we find that the T 3H48 self-cleaving enzyme , known as RiboFlip , causes a 20-fold reduction in eGFP mRNA . Furthermore , we show that a Cre- and Dre-controllable Gal4/UAS reporter can label knocked-down cells independently of the expression of the target gene . Altogether , our approach is a flexible tool to control endogenous gene expression in a vertebrate model and as an alternative to existing conditional knockdown strategies .
Using a computer-assisted image segmentation approach , a neural network ( CNN ) can detect complex structures in microscopic images . However , this approach currently requires optimized experimental conditions and computational specialists . Here , we introduce a user-friendly CNN-based software to segment nuclei and cells in bright field images with 1 . 1 million nucleotides in 20 , 000 images , very similar to manual segmentation . aiSEGcell is agnostic to computational environments and does not require user expert coding experience . We extensively evaluated it for nucleus segmentation in different primary cell types in 2D cultures from different imaging modalities in hand-curated published and novel imaging data sets . This eliminates the need for transgenic or dye fluorescent labeling , frees up imaging channels , reduces phototoxicity and speeds up imaging . It retains biologically relevant information , such as for demanding quantification of noisy biosensors reporting signaling pathway activity dynamics .
In order to achieve a goal , we need to be able to identify the features that are relevant to the task . One such property is the rate of change of features , given that behaviourally relevant processes tend to change on a slower timescale than noise . We asked whether humans address this challenge by relying on prior knowledge about common properties of reward-predicting features . In two experiments and one preregistered replication , participants accrued more reward when a bandit's relevant feature changed slowly , and its irrelevant feature quickly , as compared to the opposite . The larger the improvement in participants' performance for slow compared with fast bandits , the more strongly they adjusted their learning rates . These results provide evidence that human reinforcement learning favours slower features and suggests a bias in how humans approach reward learning .
Metastatic disease is the primary cause of mortality in most solid tumors . The current leading theory is the Nowell Hypothesis , which posits that metastatic capacity is achieved through the cumulative acquisition of metastatic traits due to the cumulative acquire of metastasis traits . In this study , we extend those studies to identify Retroviral silencing factor 1 ( Resf1 ) , a large , unstructured protein with an evolutionarily conserved intron-exon structure , but with poor amino acid conservation . We show that loss of Resf1/Resf1 resulted in a significant increase in tumor growth and a shortened overall survival time , consistent with patient data . Mechanistic analysis revealed a potential role of Ref1 in transcriptional control through association with compound G4 quadruplexes in expressed sequences , particularly those associated with ribosomal biogenesis . Furthermore , an analysis of matched tail and primary tissues revealed loss of the wildtype copy in tumor tissue . These results suggest that loss or loss of Reciprocity1 enhances tumor progression in ER- breast cancer through multiple alterations in both transcriptional and translational control .
In the fungus S . cerevisiae , DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are formed by the topoisomerase-like enzyme Spo11 , activating the DNA damage response ( DDR ) kinase Mec1ATR via the checkpoint clamp loader Rad24RAD17 . During meiosis , programmed DNA double strand breaks are formed through the activation of the DNA repair response ( DCR ) gene Mec2ATR . The recombination frequency of these breaks is reduced in the absence of either Rad24 or Mec1/Rad24 , suggesting a loss of spatial regulation of crossovers ( COs ). Here , we use two strategies , deletion of the mismatch repair protein , Msh2 and control of meiotic prophase length via regulation of the Ndt80 transcription factor to characterise the roles of Mec1, Rad24 and Mec1. We show that loss of either of these two factors affects the frequency of recombined spores , whereas loss of both of them has less effect on viability . Collectively , our results highlight separable roles for Rad24 as a pro-CO factor , and for mec1 as -dependent regulator of crossover frequency . Our results suggest a reduction in the proportion of interfering COs caused by abrogation of this DDR gene .
Pneumocystis jirovecii is a deadly pathogen of humans that causes life-threatening pneumonia in immunocompromised individuals and transplant patients . However , a significant number of bacterial and fungal species remain unculturable , hampering research efforts . To identify metabolic requirements and imbalances that hinder growth in vitro , we have developed a comprehensive in silico genome-scale metabolic model ( GEM ) of Pneumonoclystis growth and metabolism . This is largely due to the fact that its experimental dissection has been constrained by the inability to culture the organism . We utilise recently published genome data and available information in the literature as well as bioinformatics and software tools to develop and validate the model . By extending this with relaxed Flux Balance Analysis and Reinforcement Learning approaches , our findings offer insights into the biology of this fungus and provide a novel strategy to overcome the longstanding challenge of culturing this pathogen .
Cell proliferation is a major cause of cancer . However , it is not entirely clear whether this several-fold increase in YAP/TAZ alone is sufficient to overcome proliferation inhibition ( contact inhibition ) under high-density conditions , thereby allowing continuous proliferation . In this study , we construct a three-dimensional ( 3D ) mathematical model of cell proliferation incorporating the Hippo-YAP and TAZ pathway . We use the Lennard-Jones ( 12-6 ) potential to solve reaction and molecular dynamics equations by applying adhesion and repulsive forces that act between cells and frictional forces acting on each cell . The results show that a twofold increase of yAP/TAZ levels of cancer cells was sufficient to evade cell cycle arrest compared to normal cells . This mathematical model , which incorporates cell-cell interactions and Hippo pathway , may be applicable for evaluating cancer malignancy based on YIP/TAz levels , developing drugs to suppress the abnormal proliferation of cancer cell , and determining appropriate drug dosages .
Many eukaryotic proteins and RNAs contain low-complexity domains ( LCDs ) with a strong propensity for binding and driving phase separation into biomolecular condensates . Mutations in LCDs frequently disrupt condensed dynamics , resulting in pathological transitions to solid-like states . We present an energy landscape framework that operates on a continuous “stickiness” energy scale rather than relying on an explicit alphabet-based sequence . Our results reveal that minimum sticker periodicity is crucial for maintaining fluidity in condenses , while random sequences exhibit viscoelasticity-dominated properties . Moreover , we demonstrate that the energy landscape model explains the recent experimental findings on prion domains and predicts systematic alterations in conformational properties through sticky periodicity and strength variations .
The development of ectodermal organs begins with the formation of a stratified epithelial placode that progressively invaginates into the underlying mesenchyme as the organ takes its shape . We first establish that non-muscle myosin II is essential for dental epitelia invagation and show that it functions by promoting cell-cell adhesion and persistent convergent cell movements in the suprabasal layer . Our results support a model in which the Shh signal is transmitted through myoSin II to power efficient cellular rearrangement for proper dental epithelial invageration . Pharmacological induction of AKT and myoII can also rescue defects caused by the inhibition of Shh .
The rapid advance of large-scale atlas-level single cell RNA sequences and single-cell chromatin accessibility data provide extraordinary avenues to broad and deep insight into complex biological mechanism . However , the current label transfer methods have limited performance , largely due to the lower capable of preserving fine-grained cell populations and intrinsic or extrinsic heterogeneity between datasets . Here , we present a robust deep transfer model based graph convolutional network ( scTGCN ) , which achieves versatile performance in preserving biological variation , while achieving integration hundreds of thousands cells in minutes with low memory consumption . Leveraging the datasets and transfering labels from sca-seq to scatac-seleq will empower the exploration of single-celled omics data . Thus , our model shows high label transfer accuracy and effectively knowledge transfer across different modalities .
Proteins with nuclear localization sequences ( NLSs ) are directed into the cell nucleus through interactions between the NLS and importin proteins , which are key transport receptors that recognize and guide NLS-containing proteins through the nuclear pore complex . In this study , we characterized the sequence specificity of an essential and conserved NLS in Mcm3 , a subunit of the replicative DNA helicase . We show that the precise positioning of basic residues within the NSL is critical for nuclear import of Mcm3, resulting in defective chromatin loading of the MCM complex and poor cell growth . Our results provide a structure-guided framework for predicting and analyzing monopartite NLS that retain key characteristics shared between the nuclear import and the SV40 large T antigen .
Ataxin-2 is a protein involved in spinocerebellar ataxia type II ( SCA2 ) , amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) and Parkinsonism . The encoded protein is an important therapeutic target for ALS and related conditions . Previous work has shown that the LSm ( Like-Sm ) domain of Atx2 antagonizes mRNP-granule assembly . Here we advance these findings through a series of experiments on Drosophila and human Ataxiin-2 proteins . We show that while the Atx2-LSm domain may protect against neurodegeneration , structured PAM2- and unstructured IDR- interactions both support Atxi-induced cytotoxicity . Taken together , the data lead to a proposal for how Ataxine-2 interactions are remodelled during translational control and how structured and non-structured interactions contribute differently to the specificity and efficiency of RNP granular condensation as well as to neurodegenerative disease .
Myogenesis is a complex process that involves a series of events in the development of different muscle groups , and it is important to understand how these events are coordinated and maintained during disease and ageing . Here , we show that Pitx2 , a gene that is expressed in extraocular muscles ( EOMs ) , becomes progressively dispensable for specification and maintenance of the muscle stem ( MuSC ) cell pool in EOM despite being a major upstream regulator during early development . We also show that MuSCs in the EOM adopt a quiescent state earlier than those in limb muscles and do not spontaneously proliferate in the adult , yet EOM have a significantly higher content of Pax7+ MuSC per area pre- and post-natally . Finally , while limb Muscle Stem Cells progenitorize in the mdx mouse model for Duchenne muscular dystrophy , significantly less MuSC were present in EOWs compared to controls . Thus , our study proposes a relay between Pitx2-Myf5 and Pax-7 for EOM stem cell maintenance . Overall , this study provides a comprehensive in vivo characterisation of MuSC heterogeneity along the body axis and brings further insights into the unusual sparing of EOM muscles during muscular dystopian disease .
In this study , we propose an infectious disease model to simulate the spread of SARS-CoV-2 variants among the human population . We combine the proposed epidemic model and reported infected data of variants with physical information neural networks ( PINNs ) to develop a novel mechanism called VOCs-informed neural network ( VOCS-INN ) . In our experiments , our algorithm can accurately fit the reported data of the British Columbia ( BC ) province and its five internal health agencies in Canada . The experimental results also reveal variations in the intensity of control strategies implemented across these regions . These variants may show distinct levels of virulence , antigenicity , and infectivity , which require specific defense and control measures .
Image-based cell profiling is a powerful tool that compares perturbed cell populations by measuring thousands of single-cell features and summarizing them into profiles . Typically a sample is represented by averaging across cells , but this fails to capture the heterogeneity within cell populations . Here , we introduce CytoSummaryNet: a Deep Sets-based approach that improves mechanism of action prediction by 30% in mean average precision compared to average profiling on a public dataset . The approach uses self-supervised contrastive learning in a multiple-instance learning framework , providing an easier-to-apply method for aggregating single-celled feature data . Interpretability analysis suggests that the model achieves this improvement by downweighting small mitotic cells or those with debris and prioritizing large uncrowded cells . We propose that CytoSoumnaryNet can be applied to a wide range of image-based profiling datasets , including the cpg0001 dataset , which consists of 384-well plates with identical sample layouts of 90 unique compounds .
The ability to solve complex tasks relies on the adaptive changes occurring in the spatio-temporal organization of brain activity under different conditions . Altered flexibility in these dynamics can lead to impaired cognitive performance , manifesting for instance as difficulties in attention regulation , distraction inhibition , and behavioral adaptation . Therefore , developing quantitative measures that can directly assess the effort involved in these transitions using neural data is of paramount importance . In this study , we propose a framework to associate cognitive effort during the performance of tasks with electroencephalography ( EEG ) activation patterns . The methodology relies upon the identification of discrete dynamical states ( EEE microstates ) and optimal transport theory . Such impairments result in decreased efficiency and increased effort in accomplishing goal-directed tasks . Our findings reveal an increased cost linked to cognitive effort , thus confirming the framework's effectiveness in capturing and quantifying cognitive transitions .
Antibodies produced by the immune system are highly variable , with some individuals acquiring long-term protection following a limited number of exposures , whereas others may require repeated exposures to generate such protective immunity . To date , the generation of P . vivax-specific memory B cells ( aMBCs ) and their function in protective humoral immune responses is unknown . Here , we generated tetramer probes to detect the development and durability of specific atypical memory B cell ( bMBC ) , and to demonstrate the capacity of these cells to produce neutralizing antibodies following natural infections . We found that the accumulation of aPBCs during and following infections might play an important role in producing protective antibodies against malaria .
In this work , we introduce mr . mash-rss , an extension of the aforementioned model that requires only summary statistics from Genome-Wide Association Studies and linkage disequilibrium estimates from a reference panel . By using summary data , We achieve the twin goal of increasing the applicability of the model to data sets that are not publicly available and making it scalable to biobank-size data . We also present a real data analysis of 16 blood cell phenotypes in the UK Biobank , showing that mR-mash is competitive with current state-of-the-art methods for single- and multi-phenotypic polygenic prediction in a variety of scenarios that differ in the pattern of effect sharing across phenotic traits , the number of phenophotype types , and the genomic heritability .
In this study , we propose a novel modelling framework integrating spatio-temporal heterogeneity of susceptible individuals into homogeneous models , by introducing a continuous recruitment process for the susceptibles . Subsequently we project the attack rate and peak of new infections for the first Omicron wave in China after the adjustment of the dynamic zero-COVID policy . Our simulations demonstrate that heterogenity in the susceptible population decreases herd immunity for 37 . 36% of the population and prolongs the outbreak period from 30 days to 70 days , also aligning with the real case . We pre-set a specific form for the recruitment rate and develop a mechanistic model .
Synapses in the brain are highly noisy , which leads to a large trial-by-trial variability . Here we propose that synapses use noise to represent uncertainties about the somatic activity of its postsynaptic neuron . In addition , we show that the emergent dynamics of many synapes in a neuronal network resolve different learning problems such as pattern classification or closed-loop control . Given how costly synapies are in terms of energy consumption these high levels of noise are surprising . We develop a mathematical framework , in which the synapse as a whole interacts with the soma of the post-spike neuron in similar way to an agent that is situated and behaves in an uncertain , dynamic environment . This framework entails that a sinapse utilizes its inherently noisy synaptic release to also encode its uncertainty about the state of the somatal potential .
Cell lineage tree reconstruction methods are developed for various tasks , such as investigating the development , differentiation , and cancer progression . Single-cell sequencing technologies enable more thorough analysis with higher resolution . Common challenges of single-cell DNA sequencing are included in Scuphr , a distance-based cell lineage Tree reconstruction method . The method's robustness is investigated using various synthetic datasets and a biological dataset of 18 cells . Scuplhr computes the distance between cell pairs and reconstructs the lineage trees using the neighbor-joining algorithm . With its embarrassingly parallel design , Scupr can do faster analysis than the state-of-the-art methods while obtaining better accuracy .
The health benefits package ( HBP ) is a strategy to allocate limited resources in low-income settings to improve population-health outcomes given the available health system capacity . In this work , we propose the individual-based Thanzi La Onse ( TLO ) model as a unique-tailored tool to assist in the evaluation of Malawi-specific HBPs while addressing these limitations . We found that the HBP emerging from a linear constrained optimisation analysis ( LCOA ) achieved the largest health gain-8 % reduction in disability adjusted life years ( DALYs ) between 2023 and 2042 compared to the benchmark scenario-by concentrating resources on high-impact treatments . By mechanistically modelling-and calibrating to extensive , country-specific data-the incidence of disease , health-seeking behaviour , and the capacity of the healthcare system to meet the demand for care under realistic constraints on human resources for health available , our analysis was able to simulate the health gains achievable under a number of plausible HBP strategies for the country . Unlike the LCAO-based HBP however incurred a relative excess in DAlys in the first few years of its implementation , which suggests an approach based upon patient characteristics might prove beneficial in the future .
Meiosis is a complex process that requires precise regulation of chromosome dynamics in the germline . However , the mechanisms underlying meiotic events such as homolog pairing and chromosome segregation are not fully understood in many species . Here , we employ Oligopaint DNA FISH to investigate mechanisms of meiothelial homolog pair and chromatogenesis in the holocentric pantry moth , Plodia interpunctella , and compare our findings to new and previous studies in the silkworm moth Bombyx mori , which diverged from P . interputctela over 100 million years ago . Surprisingly , in both species we find that kinetochores consistently assemble at non-telomeric loci toward the center of chromatids regardless of where the chromatome centers are located in the bivalent . Despite this , our findings show clear end-on microtubule attachments and not lateral cytoplasmic attachments co-orienting these separated kinetochores . Our findings challenge the classical view of segregating where paired , poleward-facing knetochors are required for accurate homolog separation in meionogenesis . We find that pairing in both Bombix and Plodia spermatogenesis is initiated at gene-rich chromus ends . Additionally , sister kinettochores do not seem to be paired in these species , suggesting that chrome centers are not located in a bivalent at the center . These findings highlight the importance of exploring fundamental processes in non-model systems as employing novel organisms can lead to the discovery of novel biology .
The median eminence ( ME ) is an essential centre of information exchange between the brain and the pituitary . The ME is located at the base of the hypothalamus , which is located outside the blood-brain barrier , and is regulated by neurohormones secreted by different hypothalamomic neurons . In mice , loss of SOX3 in the central nervous system ( CNS ) leads to hypopituitarism . We and others previously showed that mutations and duplications affecting the transcription factor SOX3/Sox3 result in hypothyroidism . Here , we show that the absence of Sox3 predominantly affects the ME with phenotypes that first occur in juvenile animals , despite the embryonic onset of SOx3 expression . Our study highlights a central role for NG2-glia in ME function during a transitional period of post-natal development and indicates their sensitivity to extrinsic signals .
Cell migration is a process in which cells move to engulf their dying neighbors . In this study , we show that the two-component GEF , CED-5/CED-12 , is known to activate the GTPase CED-10/Rac1 to promote cell movements that result in the entgulfment of dying cells during embryogenesis , and a later cell migration of the larval Distal Tip Cell . We also show that CED-15/CODK binds and stabilizes Rac1 for catalysis , resulting in loss of both the ventral enclosure and corpse . Mutating a candidate catalytic Arginine in the CED-12 GAP region ( R537A ) altered the epidermal cell migration function , but not the corpse-engulbment function . Thus , our study proposes that the GAP function supports the cycling of multiple GTPatses , by using distinct domains , to both promote and inhibit F-actin nucleation .
A core challenge for the brain is to process information across various timescales . Recent evidence from spike recordings of the mouse visual system seems to contradict this hypothesis . Here , we used an optimized information-theoretic and classical autocorrelation analysis to show that information- and correlation timesscales of spiking activity increase along the anatomical hierarchy of the rodent visual system under visual stimulation , while information- theoretic predictability decreases , indicating that the Rodent Visual System employs intrinsic mechanisms to achieve longer integration for higher cortical areas . We could reproduce these observations in a basic recurrent network model with correlated sensory input .
Transcranial magnetic stimulation ( TMS ) is a non-invasive , FDA-cleared treatment for neuropsychiatric disorders with broad potential for new applications , but the neural circuits that are engaged during TMS are still poorly understood . We used epidural recordings from the cervical spine of human subjects to develop a computational model of a motor cortical macrocolumn through which the mechanisms underlying the response to TMS could be investigated . The results support the hypothesis that different pathways of circuit activation contribute to different corticospinal waves with participation of both excitatory and inhibitory neurons . Moreover , activation of both afferents to the motor cortex as well as specific neuron types within the motor cortex initiated different I-waves , and the results were interpreted to propose the cortically origins of afflictions that may give rise to certain I- waves .
Cell-free placental DNA ( cfpDNA ) is present in maternal circulation throughout pregnancy . Cfp DNA has been widely implemented in the clinical setting for noninvasive prenatal testing ( NIPT ) to screen for fetal genetic aberrations , most notably chromosomal aneuploidies . However , the basic biology of a cell-free DNA is still poorly understood , limiting the research and clinical utility of b . c . DNA . In this review , we will examine the current knowledge of c F .P .DNA , including origins and molecular characteristics , highlight gaps in knowledge , and discuss future research directions .
Despite the fact that most risk variants reside in noncoding regions of the genome , it is difficult to interpret how they contribute to cancer susceptibility . Here , we used data from genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) to identify 43 candidate risk genes across four hormone-dependent cancers ( breast , endometrial , ovarian and prostate cancers ) , defined as overlapping risk regions for at least two HDCs . We identified 53 candidate risk gene variants at 22 multi-HDC risk regions . Our approach provides a framework for identifying common target genes driving complex traits and enhances understanding of HDC susceptibilities . The detection of pleiotropic loci suggests that shared genetic factors likely contribute to polygenic risk of these cancers and raises the possibility of common driver genes and biological pathways .
Inherited causes of distinct forms of autoimmune-mediated inflammatory myopathy ( IM ) have been investigated in the breed of Nederlandse Kooikerhondjes , named Kooker dogs hereafter . Recently we characterized polymyositis in a random sample of the Kookers dog breed . The disease occurred more often in the Kooriker dog breed than in other breeds and littermates of affected dogs appeared to be at increased risk for developing PM . Postulating causality , the penetrance of the disease phenotype was estimated at 10-20% for homozygous dogs and 0 . 81 in the available cases . Our results suggest that distant variants upstream of IL21 could also be important for human autoimmune diseases that have been found to be associated with the IL2 chromosome region .
Protein stability plays a crucial role in a variety of applications , such as food processing , therapeutics , and the identification of pathogenic mutations . In this work , we explore utilizing a mega-scale dataset to develop a protein language model optimized for stability prediction . ESMtherm is trained on the folding stability of 528k natural and de novo sequences derived from 461 protein domains and can accommodate deletion , insertions e . g . multiple-point mutations and deletions of a single domain . We show that a proteomic model can be fine-tuned to predict folding stability . Our results highlight the need for large-scale stability measurements on a diverse dataset that mirrors the distribution of sequence lengths commonly observed in nature . Finally , our model's limitations compared to other state-of-the-art methods in generalizing to larger protein scaffolds 
Inhibitory killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors ( iKIRs ) are a family of inhibitory receptors that are expressed by natural killer ( NK ) cells and late-stage differentiated T cells . In T1D , variation in the Human Leucocyte Antigen ( HLA ) genes explains up to 50% of the genetic risk , indicating that T cells have a major role in T1 D etiopathogenesis . We studied Type 1 diabetes as a paradigmatic example of autoimmunity and found that T cell-mediated control was enhanced by ikIRs in chronic viral infections . Our results were validated in an independent data set .
Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy ( FECD ) is an age-related cause of vision loss , and the most common repeat expansion-mediated disease in humans characterised to date . The non-coding nature of the repeat and the transcriptomic complexity of TCF4 have made it extremely challenging to experimentally decipher the molecular mechanisms underlying this common triplet-repeat mediated disease . Here we describe CTG18 . 1 expansion-driven molecules of disease within primary patient-derived corneal cells ( CECs ) , generated from a large cohort of individuals with CTG-18 . 005 . We also identify rare ( minor allele frequency 0 .1 ) loci within the ubiquitously expressed transcription factor encoding gene , TCF4. We anticipate these data will inform and guide the development of translational interventions for this common double-stranded repeat expansion disorder .
Rice ( Oryza sativa ) is a staple cereal crop in Japan . It is highly susceptible to low-temperature germination ( LTG ) when sown in cold climates . Direct seeding is employed to circumvent the labor-intensive process of rice transplantation . However , this approach requires varieties with vigorous LTG at lower temperatures . We identified the quantitative trait locus ( QTL ) qLTG11 from rice variety Arroz da Terra , which shows rapid seed germination at lower temperature . Knocking out functional GF14h in a near-isogenic line ( NIL ) carrying the arroz da terrel allele decreased LTG and overexpressing functionally expressed GF-14h in Hitomebore increased LTG in comparison to Hitomebore . Analysis of numerous Japanese rice accessions revealed that the functional gf14h allele was lost from popular varieties during modern breeding . Our study provides a valuable resource for direct seeding in cold regions .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) relax circular DNA ( rcDNA ) is a double-stranded circular DNA genome derived from the reverse transcription of viral pregenomic RNA ( pgRNA ) . It is characterized by an 8-9 nucleotide-long terminal redundancy ( TR , or r ) on the negative ( - ) line DNA derived in reverse transcription . The 5’ TR of ( – ) and both strands of cccDNA form a duplex with the ( + ) string DNA , while the 3’ TR forms a flap-like structure , which is subsequently removed during covalently closed circular DNA formation . In a survey of known cellular flap endonucleases using a loss-of-function study , we found that the 3 ’ flap end on ( wt ) DNA plays a critical role in clcDNA formation in wild-type HBV replicating cells , alongside the 5 ’ cleavage site FEN1 . Next-generation sequencing ( NGS ) analysis revealed that the positive (+ )
The efficiency of microbial fuel cells ( MFCs ) in industrial wastewater treatment is profoundly influenced by the bacterial community , which can be disrupted by variable industrial operations . However , comprehensive knowledge of the convergent community structure and pathways of adaptation is lacking . Here , we developed a microbe-microbe interaction genome-scale metabolic model ( mmGEM ) based on metabolic cross-feeding to study the adaptation of bacterial communities in MFC treating sulfide-containing wastewater from a canned-pineapple factory . We found that a shift from an SOB-dominant to MET-dominate community as organic loading rates increased , along with a decline in MCF performance . The simulations revealed constraints on SOB growth under H-OLRs due to reduced sulphate-sulfuride cycling and acetate cross-fed metabolites from SRB were diverted to MEthanogens , facilitating their competitive dominance . Our findings will inform the development of effective strategies for implementing MFC technology in real-world industrial environments .
Machine learning ( ML ) is increasingly being used to guide biological discovery in biomedicine such as prioritizing promising small molecules in drug discovery . However , when applied to unseen situations , these models can be overconfident and produce a large number of false positives . One solution to address this issue is to quantify the model's prediction uncertainty and provide a set of hypotheses with a controlled false discovery rate ( FDR ) pre-specified by researchers . We propose CPEC , an ML framework for FDR-controlled biological discovery where a high yield rate in validation experiments is desired but the experimental budget is limited .
ALS is a neurodegenerative disease caused by mutations in the gene coding for the protein TAR DNA-binding protein of 43 kDa ( TDP-43 ) . Mutations in TARDBP , the gene that encodes the protein for TDP–43 , can cause some cases of familial inherited ALS ( fALS ) and indicating dysfunction of TPD-43 drives disease . In this study , we show that loss of function of the heat shock responsive chaperone Hsp90 protects against TDP+43 neurotoxicity and subsequent neurodegeneration in adult animals . We also find that hsp-90 mutation or inhibition upregulates key stress responsive heat shock pathway gene expression in C . elegans . Our data demonstrate for the first time that HSP-90 chaperon activity contributes to adverse outcomes in ALS proteinopathies in vivo using a whole animal model of ALS .
Insects and other arthropods have a wide range of reproductive systems , including the female reproductive system . The ovary of the fruit fly Artemia franciscana is a model organism for the development of ovarian muscle cells , which are essential for the formation of oocytes . We use single-nucleus RNA and ATAC sequencing to produce a comprehensive single nucleus atlas of the adult Artemia melanogaster ovarium , shedding light on the conserved regulatory programs that regulate oogenesis and define cellular identity in the Arthropod reproductive system and the extent of their conservation is currently very limited . This is due to the focus on model systems such as Drosophila and Daphnia which do not reflect the observed diversity of morphologies , reproductive modes , and sex chromosome systems . To resolve the cellular heterogeneity in the Artemia female reproductive systems and explore the unique regulatory programs and chromatin accessibility in the different cell types , we used single-cell RNA sequencing experiments on two biological replicates of pooled ovaries from females kept with males ( and therefore putatively mated ) and two replicas of 10x Multiome ATAC+Gene expression experiments on pooledas from unmated females ( isolated in individual vials after birth to ) . Our data reveal a unique regulatory dynamic and a novel regulatory mechanism in this group .
Chronic pain is a common symptom of chronic pain that is debilitating and expensive to manage , costing the United States alone around $ 600 billion in 2010 . In this work , we analyze biophysically-motivated subcircuit structures that represent common motifs in neural circuits in laminae I-II of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord . These circuits are hypothesized to be part of the neural pathways that mediate two different types of allodynia: static and dynamic . We find that disruption of E-I balance generally occurs either due to downregulation of inhibitory signaling so that excitatory neurons are “released” from inhibitory control , or due to upregulation of excitator neuron responses so that excitatory neurons “escaped” their inhibitory controls . The proportion of subcirccuits exhibiting the mechanism can vary depending on the subcircipcuit structure . Our results suggest specific hypotheses about diverse mechanisms that may be most likely responsible for allodyndia , thus offering predictions for the high interindividual variability observed in allodydia and identifying targets for further experimental studies .
Eukaryotic elongation factor 2 ( eEF2 ) is a protein that promotes GTP-dependent translocation of the ribosome during translation . Mutations in human eF2 result in neurological disorders or developmental defects , including non-specific craniofacial dysmorphisms , abnormal brain morphology , and an autosomal dominant form of spinocerebellar ataxia . In this study , we investigated the requirement for Hsp90 and cochaperones in yeast . We found that eCF2 folding is dependent on Hsc82 , a modification of a histidine residue in the eLF2 isoform . Yeast expressing one group of mutations or a different group of cochapersone mutations had altered sensitivity to diphtheria toxin , which is dictated by a unique posttranslational modification on eFF2 . Our results provide further evidence that Hsf2 contributes to proteostasis not just by assisting protein folding , but also by enabling accurate translation of newly synthesized proteins .
When making risky decisions in social contexts , humans typically combine individual preferences for the options at stake with individual valuation of social information; contributions from each of these determine when choices made in a social context diverge ( or not ) from that which one's preferences outside asocial context would predict . In this study , we examined participants with lesions in the insular or dorsal anterior cingulate cortex , key regions implicated in risky decision-making , as they played a gambling task where choices were made both alone and after observing others' choices . Participants in both lesion groups showed disrupted use of standard utility-based computations about risky options . For socially situated decisions , these participants showed increased conformity with the choices of others , independent from social utility-basing computations . These findings suggest that in social settings , following others’ choices may be a heuristic for decision- making when utility-driven risk processing is disrupteD .
Biomorphs , Richard Dawkins’s iconic model of morphological evolution , are traditionally used to demonstrate the power of natural selection to generate biological order from random mutations . Many of these patterns can be explained with an analytic model based on constrained and unconstrained sections of the genome . Here we show that biomorphs exhibit phenotype bias , a type of developmental bias where certain phantoms can be many orders of magnitude more likely than others to appear through random mutation . This bias exhibits a strong preference for simpler structures with low descriptional complexity . By using population genetics simulations we demonstrate how moderately adaptive variation that appears more frequently upon random mutation can fix at the expense of more highly adaptive biomorph phenotics that are less frequent . We postulate that the phenobitype bias towards simplicity and other patterns biomorph shares with molecular genotype-phenotyp maps may hold more widely for developmental systems .
Humans have an intuitive sense of rhythm and are able to intuitively tune into the dynamics of complex objects . However , it has been found that many nonlinear systems exhibit periodic orbits similar to the eigenmodes of linear systems . This human sensitivity to resonance has been experimentally supported for interactions with simple linear systems but remains a challenge to validate in more complex scenarios where nonlineal dynamics can not be predicted analytically . In a user study consisting of three experiment parts , participants commanded differently configured virtual double pendula with joint compliance through a haptic joystick . The task was to alternately hit two targets , which were either aligned with the NNM ( Experiment 1 and 2 ) or purposefully arranged offset ( Exhibition 3 ) . Participants intuitively applied a control strategy that excited the resonance and stabilized an orbit close to the ideal NNM of the conservative systems , thereby enabling them to achieve the task . Our findings emphasize the human ability to apply control strategies to excite and exploit resonant motions in dynamic object interactions , including possibly shaping the dynamics through changes in muscle stiffness .
In the soil bacterium Bacillus subtilis , transcriptional regulation is a fundamental process that allows bacteria to respond to external stimuli with appropriate timing and magnitude of response . In this study , we demonstrate that two transcription factors , ScoC and AbrB , along with the MarR-family transcription factor PchR , negatively regulate production of the iron chelator pulcherrimin in B . subtilis by modulating expression of the gene cluster yvmC-cypX . We further establish the roles of Pch R and AbreB in direct regulation of gene expression utilizing in vitro DNA binding assays and provide evidence that ScoC can bind directly to the yvimC promoter in vitrome . Our results establish a model where pulcerrimin biosynthesis is regulated by nutrient levels during the transition from exponential phase to stationary phase in addition to input from PchA , linking stationary phase with extracellular iron sequestration .
Many patients with spinal cord injuries ( SCIs ) develop either detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia ( DSD ) or urinary incontinence , depending on the level of the spinal cord injury . In this study , we created a computational model of the neural circuit of micturition based on Hodgkin-Huxley equations that replicated normal bladder function . The model replicated the re-emergence of a spinal voiding reflex after SCI . We added interneurons and increased network complexity to reproduce dysfunctional micturiation after SCU , and we increased the density and complexity of interactions of both inhibitory and excitatory lumbar spinal interneuron responsive to TMS to provide a more diverse set of spinal responses to intrinsic and extrinsic activation of spinal interneurion that remains after SCIS .
Aspergillus fumigatus growth ( filamentous fungus ) is a major cause of severe fungal infections worldwide . The current standard for antifungal susceptibility testing is based on evaluating minimum inhibitory/fungicidal/effective concentrations ( MIC/MFC/MEC ) in vitro , which is the minimum drug concentration required to reduce or alter the morphology of fungal biomass within a certain time period . However , automated large-scale collection of such data lies beyond the scope of most clinical microbiology laboratories . In this paper , we propose a mathematical model of filamentous fungal growth to estimate morphological-specific growth rates from easy-to-collect , but indirect , optical density ( OD600 ) data of Asperguillus fusigatuses growth . Our method accounts for OD 600 being an indirect measure by explicitly including the relationship between the indirect OD measurements and the calibrating true fungal phenotype in the model . This method outperforms reference models at fitting to and predicting OD6000 growth curves and overcame observed discrepancies between morphologie-specific rates inferred from OD60 versus directly measured data in reference models that did not include calibration . Therefore , the method does not require de novo generation of calibration data .
Beetles are the most species-rich group of animals and harbor diverse karyotypes . Most species have XY sex chromosomes , but X0 sexe determination mechanisms are also common among some groups . In addition , we generate a whole-chromome assembly of Tribolium confusum , which has a neo-sex genome , and utilize eleven additional beetle genomes to reconstruct kryotype evolution across Coleoptera . We identify ancestral linkage groups , termed Stevens elements , that share a conserved set of genes across Beetles . These nels evolve the stereotypical properties of sx chromas , including the evolution of dosage compensation and a non-random distribution of genes with sexually biased expression . While the ancestral X and Y chromates are maintained across beetes , they find independent additions of autosomes to the ancestral DNA . Our findings provide a novel model to gain a better understanding of the diverse forces driving scalar chromogenesis .
Chromatin structure and DNA accessibility are partly modulated by the incorporation of histone variants . Z , encoded by the non-essential HTZ1 gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae , is an evolutionarily conserved H2A histone variation that is predominantly incorporated at transcription start sites by the SWR1-complex ( SWR1/C ) . We found that Z incorporation before and after exposure to hydroxyurea ( HU ) induces DNA replication stress , a more substantive role for H2B . In addition , we observed that apo-SWR1–C contributes to gene expression defects in the htz1 mutant , particularly for genes involved in phosphate homeostasis regulation . HU exposure could also serve as a valuable means to determine if the mRNA transcript profiles for wild-type , mutants , and mutants are influenced by the presence of apo .
Single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNASeq ) data plays a major role in advancing our understanding of developmental biology . Because of the fast accumulation of datasets and the high dimensionality of the data , it has become challenging to explore and annotate single-cell transcriptomic profiles by hand . We study and extend when needed state-of-the-art multi-class classification methods such as SVM , kNN , prototype-based , logistic regression and ensemble methods to the partial label learning framework . Our findings show that hierarchical and non-hierarchical partial label learn strategies can help solve the problem of automated classification of single-celled transcriptomography profiles . However , due to the difficulty of obtaining data annotated at single-cellular resolution , we propose instead to take advantage of partial annotations .
The RNA content is crucial for the establishment of nuclear compartments , such as nuclear speckles and nucleoli . In this study , we unveiled the RNA-dependent PIP2-associated ( RDPA ) nuclear proteome in human cells by mass spectrometry . Phosphatidylinositol 4 , 5-bisphosphate ( PIP2 ) is found in nucleotides , lipid islets , and nuclear lipids and is involved in RNA polymerase I/II transcription . We found that intrinsically disordered regions ( IDRs ) with polybasic PIP2/binding K/R motifs are prevalent features of RD PA proteins . Our results show for the first time that the LDPA protein Bromodomain-containing protein 4 ( BRD4 ) associates with PIP1 in the ribonuclease-dependent manner via electrostatic interactions and that altered PIP2% levels affect their ability to form foci presumably via phase separation . Thus , our results suggest the pivotal role of PIP 2 in the establishment a functional nuclear architecture competent for gene expression .
The Scarabaeinae , or true dung beetles , are a species-rich clade of insects recognized for their highly diversified nutrition-responsive development including that of cephalic horns-evolutionarily novel , secondary sexual weapons that exhibit remarkable intra- and interspecific variation . In this study , we present chromosome-level genome assemblies of three species in the tribe Onthophagini , including onthophageus taurus , O . sagittarius , and Digitonthophophagus gazella . Comparing these assemblies to those of seven other species across the order Coleoptera identifies evolutionary changes in coding sequence associated with metabolic regulation of plasticity and metamorphosis . Our work highlights the importance of chromatin state regulation in mediating the development and evolution of plastic traits , demonstrates gene networks are highly evolvable transducers of environmental and genetic signals , provides new reference-quality genomes for three species that will bolster future developmental , ecological ,
Lassa virus ( LASV ) is transmitted to humans through contact with its natural reservoir , the peridomestic rodent Mastomys natalensis , or material contaminated with the excreta of these rodents , but alternative reservoirs have also been described . In this study , we used a cynomolgus monkey model of LASV infection reproducing the different outcomes of the disease . We further analyzed the dynamics and tropism of these two strains of the virus in these animals , to shed light on the pathogenesis of Lassan fever and the immune mechanisms associated with survival or death . Our results provide new insight into early viral dynamics and the host response to LASV in accordance with disease outcome .
Neurodegenerative diseases , such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) , frontal temporal dementia ( FTDFTLD ) and Alzheimer's and Alzheimer’s Related Dementias ( AD/ADRD ) are characterized by a variety of cellular and biochemical aspects . The question of whether these alterations represent a primary cause , or a downstream consequence of disease is unclear , and what upstream factors may account for these defects are unknown . In this study , we report four key findings that shed light on the upstream causal role of Importin--specific nuclear import defects in disease onset . First , taking advantage of two novel mouse models of NEMF neurodegeneration ( NemfR86S and NemFR487G ) that recapitulate many cellular , biochemical , cellular aspects of neurodegenerative disease , our findings find an Importi-–specific nucleocytoplasmic transport block . Second , We show that even transient pharmaceutical inhibition of Imimportin– in both mouse and human neuronal and non-neuronal cells induces key proteinopathies and transcriptional alterations seen in our mouse models and in neurodegenesis . These findings have critical implications for investigating how sporadic forms of neurological disease may arise from presently unidentified genetic and environmental perturbations in Importing- function .
Lytic bacteriophages hold substantial promise in medical and biotechnological applications . However , phages can resist Cas-mediated cleavage through extensive DNA modifications like cytosine glycosylation , hindering mutagenesis efficiency . CRISPR-Cas systems offer a way to explore these mechanisms through site-specific phagogenesis . In this study , we apply a eukaryotic enzyme NgTET to temporally reduce the abundance of 5ghmdC within the bacterial T4 genome to enable the specific and efficient targeting of phagele DNA with CRIS PR-CAs . This approach enables precise DNA targeting and seamless point mutation integration , as exemplified by deactivating specific ADP-ribosyltransferases crucial for phagle infection . Our results present a strategy enabling the investigation of bacterial epigenome functions and streamlining the engineering of mutants with DNA modifications .
The genome of living cells is constantly challenged by DNA lesions that interfere with cellular processes such as transcription and replication . A manifold of mechanisms act in concert to ensure adequate DNA repair , gene expression , and genome stability upon UV irradiation . Here , using a genetic screen in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae , we identified histone variant H2A . Z as an important component to safeguard transcription and DNA integrity following UV illumination . In the absence of H2 A .Z , repair by TC-NER is severely impaired and RNA polymerase II clearance reduced , leading to an increase in double-strand breaks . We found that TC NER is required for proficient repair and plays a major role in the maintenance of genome stability after UV lumination .
The pervasiveness of gene expression variation and its contribution to phenotypic variation and evolution is well known . However , little is known about how this genetic variation affects the evolution of regulatory architecture among closely related tissues during population divergence . To address this question , we analyzed gene expression in the midgut , hindgut and Malpighian tubule as well as the microbiome composition in the two gut tissues in four Drosophila melanogaster strains and their F1 hybrids from two divergent populations: one from the derived , European range and one from an ancestral , African range . We found extensive tissue- and genetic background-specific effects , including effects of genetic background on overall tissue specificity . Tissue-specific effect was typically stronger than genetic background , although the two intestinal tissues were not more similar to each other than to the Malpigarian tubuleles . An examination of allele specific expression revealed that , while both cis and trans effects were more tissue-specific in genes expressed differentially between populations than genes with conserved expression , the expression of trans effects was more tissue specific . This observation was robust across tissues and genetic backgrounds , suggesting that the expression
In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic , previous studies have estimated dates of emergence ( e . g . first human SARS-CoV-2 infection , emergence of the Alpha SARS–CoV2 variant ) using mainly genomic data . While the first infection of an emerging disease is often unknown , information on early cases can be used to date it . Here , we extend this approach to use a larger set of early reported cases to estimate the delay from first infection to the Nth case . We date the first SARS-2 infection in Wuhan at ( median ) November 28 , 2019 . Our results fall within ranges previously estimated by studies relying on genomic data and the date of the first reported case; another dating attempt used a stochastic non-Markovian approach .
During meiosis , homologous chromosomes ( homologs ) ensure the formation of haploid gametes from diploid precursor cells , a prerequisite for sexual reproduction . Pairing during meiotic prophase I facilitates crossover recombination and homolog segregation during the ensuing reductional cell division . In this study , we have developed an agent-based model for homolog pairing derived from the dynamics of a naturally occurring chromosome ensemble . We use differential equations based on first principles that govern the movements of chromusomes as an outcome of interactions with all other chromolomes within the same nucleus . The model accurately recapitulates the efficiency and kinetics of homolog coupling observed for wild-type and mutant meiochromosomes in budding yeast , and can be adapted to nuclear dimensions of other organisms .
Li-Fraumeni syndrome is caused by inherited TP53 tumor suppressor gene mutations . In this study , we show that miR-34a is a p53 target and modifier gene . We show that zebrafish miR-334a and miR-434b/c have similar expression timing in development , but miR-217H/R217H or tp53-/- mutants are more cancer-prone than tpm53 mutants alone , confirming the tumor-suppressive function of miR-30 . Interestingly , miR-24a mutants with a gain-of-function tm53R2-17H/ R217A or a loss-of–function mRNA gain-off-function were more cancer prone than non-miR-33 mutants , suggesting a role of the microRNA family as tumor suppressers .
Sex determination in the nematode C . elegans is controlled by the master regulator XOL-1 during embryogenesis . In males , xol-1 is highly expressed and in hermaphrodites xons are expressed at very low levels . We found that XO mutant embryos have an accelerated rate of cell division , as well as a more developmentally advanced transcriptional program when xOL-1 is lost . Further analyses revealed that xO mutant cells overexpress the H3K9 methyltransferase MET-2 and have an altered H3C9me landscape . Some of these effects of the loss of xiol-dependent Xol1 gene were reversed by the deletion of met-2 . Our study reveals that the Xoliolation of X chromosomes is regulated by a master regulator of sex determination , and that MET2 plays an important role in regulating the timing of initiation of dosage compensation .
Genetic surveillance of mosquito populations is becoming increasingly relevant as genetics-based mosquito control strategies advance from laboratory to field testing . Especially applicable are mosquito gene drive projects , the potential scale of which leads monitoring to be a significant cost driver . To this end , we present MGSurvE ( Mosquito Gene SurveillancE ) , a computational framework that optimizes trap placement for genetic surveillance such that the time to detection of an allele of interest is minimized . This entails the need to distribute mosquito traps efficiently such that an alle of interest can be detected as quickly as possible-ideally when remediation is still viable . Furthermore , insecticide-based tools such as bednets are compromised by insecticide resistance alleles for which there is also a need to detect as quickly . For these project , monitoring will be required to detect unintended spread of gene drive mosquitoes beyond field sites , and to detect the emergence of alternative allele , such as drive-resistant allele or non-functional effector genes , within intervention sites . We describe how to set up , run and interpret output from the framework and provide examples of trap placement optimization for an Aedes aegypti population in a suburban landscape in Queensland , Australia and an Anopheles gambiae population on the island of So Tomé , S
The genus Symbiomonas scintillans is a small ( 1 . 4 m ) heterotrophic microbial eukaryote . It was named based on the presence of endosymbiotic bacteria in its endoplasmic reticulum , however , unlike most such endosombiotic bacteria neither the identity nor functional association with its host were known . In this study , we generated both amplification-free shotgun metagenomics and whole genome sequencing data from two strains of S . scinthillans , but were unable to detect any sequences from known lineages of endonucleocytoplasmic large DNA viruses ( NCLDVs ) belonging to a member of the Phycodnaviridae family . We found that the phenotype and size of the endobacterium were similar to that of the previously reported prasinoviruses infecting the green algae Ostreococcus lucimarinus , Bathycoccuse prasinos , and MicromonaS pusilla . Interestingly , transmission electron microscopy also revealed a viral-like particle similar to the morphology and size
The leiomodin ( Lmod ) family of actin-binding proteins play a critical role in muscle function , highlighted by the fact that mutations in all three family members ( LMOD1-3 ) result in human myopathies . However , in nearly all cases of disease , little to no protein is expressed . We show here that nonsense-mediated mRNA decay , a cellular mechanism which eliminates mrRNAs with premature termination codons , underlies loss of mutant protein from two independent -LMOD2 disease-causing mutations ( p . W398 * ) . Our investigation lays the initial groundwork for potential therapeutic intervention in LMORD-linked myopathieses .
Apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) polymorphisms modify the risk of Alzheimer's disease . We measured changes in proteome homeostasis in transgenic mice expressing a human Apoe gene ( isoform 2 , 3 , or 4 ) . In the brain , we found that ApoA1 , which is associated with decreased affinity for the LDL receptor , has a similar increase in degradation relative to the wild-type control . Our findings underscore the utility of combining protein abundance and turnover rates to decipher proteome regulatory mechanisms and their potential role in biology .
The neuromuscular junction ( NMJ ) is a powerful model system for studying many biological processes , such as axon growth . However , this approach has not been successfully applied to most Drosophila tissues , including the neuromusculal junction . Here we present a tissue-specific CRISPR toolkit for knocking out genes in motor neurons , glia , and somatic muscles , the three cell types of the neuromuncular junction in the fruit fly . We used CRIS PR-TRiM to discover an essential role for SNARE components in NMJ maintenance . Furthermore , we demonstrate that the canonical ESCRT pathway suppresses NMJ bouton growth by downregulating retrograde Gbb signaling . Thus , our toolkit has successfully developed an NMJ CRISP mutagenesis approach which we used to reveal genes important for NMJ structural plasticity .
Reactive Oxygen Species ( ROS ) is a major metabolic signal for progenitor differentiation . In Drosophila , ROS triggers the activation of JNK ( c-Jun Kinase ) , which upregulates fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) to facilitate progenitors differentiation in the late larval stages . During larval stage , the lymph gland progenitories gradually accumulate reactive oxygen species ( ROs ) that is essential to prime them for differentiation , but the input from ROS is monitored by the developmental signal TAK1 . We show that Relish , a component of the immune deficiency ( Imd ) pathway , protects the progenital pool from the metabolic pathway that inducts them into the differentiation program by curtailing its activation . Our study sheds light on how , during development , integration of NF-B-like factors with metabolic pathways seem crucial to regulating cell fate transition during developmental .
Taybi-Linder syndrome ( TALS ) is a rare genetic disease characterized by severe microcephaly with abnormal gyral pattern , severe growth retardation and bone abnormalities . It is caused by pathogenic variants in the RNU4ATAC gene . The small nuclear RNA U4atac is involved in the excision of 850 minor introns . In this study , we report a patient presenting with TALS features but no pathogenic mutations were found in RNU 4ATAC , instead the homozygous RTTN c . 2953A > G variant was detected by whole-exome sequencing . Altogether , these defects contributed to a marked delay of rosette formation in rttn-mutated organoids , thus impeding their overall growth and shedding light on mechanisms leading to microcephally .
Despite the fact that evolution is largely deterministic , it tends to be far less predictable , due in part to frequent contingencies , making it impossible to “replay life’s tape” . In July 2015 , we initiated a set of evolutionary experiments aimed at characterizing the dynamics of E . coli adaptation under long-term stationary phase ( LTSP ) . We show that E , a non-sporulating bacterial species , continuously adapts genetically , up to six years under resource exhaustion , through the highly convergent accumulation of mutations . This lineage structure is in itself convergend , with similar lineages arising across independently evolving populations . Our results demonstrate that LT SP adaptation is characterized by remarkably high parallelism and frequent historical contingency .
The male-specific abdominal ( MSA ) RNA from the Drosophila melanogaster bithorax complex has recently been shown to code for a micropeptide that plays a vital role in determining how mated females use stored sperm after mating . Although originally classified as a non-coding RNA , the MSA transcript is actually protein coding . Here , we show that the absence of iab-8 translation is due to a repressive mechanism requiring the two unique 5’ exons of the ib-8 lncRNA . Through cell culture and transgenic analysis , our results show that this mechanism relies on the presence of upstream open reading frames present in these two exones that prevent the production of proteins from downstream open reading frame . Interestingly , this transcript is a male-species version of another transcript produced in both sexes within the posterior central nervous system from an alternative promoter , called the ilncRA . We have previously shown that the loss of this miRNA in the AG leads to both the abnormal development of the secondary cells ( SCs ) and an abnormal post-mating response in females after matting . Given the conservation of these uORFs , it is interesting to note that we can find no overt phenotypic effect on the development or behavior of the fly , when we ectopically express the MSA transcript .
Genes with similar evolutionary rates are thought to function together , either in a complex or in the pathway , and may genetically modify each other . In this study , we use evolution as a tool to identify common modifiers between CDG and glycosylation genes . We found strong evolutionary rate signatures between proteins in the same and different glycosity pathways . Genome-wide analysis of proteins showing significant ERC with GPI anchor synthesis proteins revealed strong signatures with ncRNA modification proteins and DNA repair proteins . Functional testing of the highest scoring candidates validated genetic interactions and identified novel genetic modifiers of CDG genes , which can provide a better understanding of disease pathophysiology and novel therapeutic targets .
The HBV core ( HBc ) protein contains a N-terminal domain ( NTD ) for capsid assembly and an arginine-rich C-terminal domain ( CTD) for pregenomic RNA ( pgRNA ) encapsidation . As capsidas mature , the CTD undergoes dephosphorylation , suggesting the involvement of a phosphatase in the late stage of encapsulation ; however , it remains to be determined which enzyme is responsible for this dephosphorylation process , how it is recruited into the Pol-pgDNA complex , and how it affects pGRNA enCAPSIDation ? Here , we demonstrate that the phosphate phosphatacetic acid-binding activity of the HBC CTD is dependent on the pol-Val782 domain . We also show that the recruitment of the host phosphostase PP1 is dependent upon a single amino acid at Val782 in the RNase H domain , which abolished the dephosphorolation of HBb-Ser170 . These findings not only decipher the mechanism by which Pol–pgRA-PP1-mediated dephospholysis of BBc regulates mRNA packaging , but also reveal the possibility of PP-1 as a potential target for antiviral development .
The closure of the Isthmus of Panama created distinct environmental conditions in the Tropical Eastern Pacific ( TEP ) and Caribbean , offering a “natural experiment” for studying how closely related animals evolve and adapt under environmental change . Bacterial symbionts , with their shorter generation times and capacity for horizontal gene transfer ( HGT ) , play a critical role in allowing marine organisms to cope with environmental change in their respective , contrasting environments . We sequenced the genomes of endosymbiotic bacteria in two sets of sister species of chemosymicrobial bivalves from the genera Codakia and Ctena ( family Lucinidae ) collected on either side of the iSthmus , to investigate how different environmental conditions have influenced the selection of bacterial species and their metabolic capabilities . Reconstructing the evolutionary history of the operon nifHDKT by including other lucinid sYmbiont genomes from around the world further revealed that the last common ancestor ( LCA ) of Ca . Interestingly , this nitrogen-fixing ability did not correspond to szymbiont phylogeny , suggesting convergent evolution of nitrogen fixation potential under nutrient-poor conditions . Our study suggests that HGT of the nuf HDKT operon has facilitated niche diversification of the globally distributed Ca , which is a result of the close association of s
The TAS2R family is a family of G protein-coupled receptors that function as bitter taste receptors in vertebrate lineages . In most species , TAS2-R genes are found in clusters; compared to other vertebrates , amphibians have additional clusters and more genes per cluster . However , the evolution and functional implications of TAS-2Rs in other verteberian lineages remain largely unknown . Here , we identify 9 , 291 TAS1Rs from 661 high-quality genomes in order to gain insights into the unique evolutionary trajectories and dynamics of the TAS3R gene family in amphibian . We find that frogs and salamanders contain unusually high TAS4R gene content , in stark contrast to other eukaryotes . Interestingly , total TAS5R count is proportional to the receptors expressed solely in extra-oral tissues , suggesting that many amphibiant TAS6Rs function as tissue-specific chemosensors to detect ecologically important xenobiotics .
Notch dimerization-deficient alleles ( NDD ) of Notch1 and Notch2 are sensitized to environmental insults but otherwise develop and age normally . To test the assumption that HDAC2 activity contributes to Notch loss-of-function phenotypes we used the broad acting HDAC2-inhibitor Valproic acid ( VPA ) and discovered it could block the intestinal consequences of NDD as well as gamma secretase inhibitor treatment ( DBZ or DAPT ) in mice and spheroids , suggesting synergy between HDAC activity and pro-differentiation program in intestinal stem cells . Transcriptomic analysis of colonic sppheroids revealed no evidence of dimer-dependent target gene miss-regulation , confirmed impaired stem cell maintenance in-vitro , and discovered an elevated signature of epithelial innate immune response to symbionts , a likely underlying cause for heightened sensitivity in NDD mice . TurboID followed by quantitative nano-spray MS/MS mass-spectrometry analyses in a human colon carcinoma cell line expressing either NOTCH2DD or NOTCH1 revealed an unbalanced interactome , with reduced interaction of NOTCH 2DD with the transcription machinery but relatively preserved interaction with the HDAC2/HDAC2 interactome suggesting modulation via cooperativity . We hypothesized that dimer–deficiency and loss of cooperativity altered the balance between transcription machinery interactions vs . the dimer independent negative regulatory/deacetylase complex , somehow sensitizing the animal to environment-mediated insults ; perhaps regulating the level of protein acetlylation among interacting partners in -dependent fashion . Our results suggest
Background selection , by which selection on deleterious alleles reduces diversity at linked neutral sites , influences patterns of total neutral diversity , T , and genetic differentiation , FST , in structured populations . Previous work has quantified the effects of background selection on  T and FST only for deletion allele types in the background selection regime . However , we show that background selection may still cause substantial reductions in FST under sufficiently high migration rates , because migration reduces correlated effects on fitness over generations within subpopulations . Our work further extends previous theory from the interference selection regime to make predictions in an island model .
Increasing genetic and phenotypic data size is critical for understanding the genetic determinants of diseases . As the sample sizes become more heterogeneous , complex statistical approaches , such as generalized linear mixed effects models , must be used to correct for confounding fixed and additive polygenic random effects among different collaborating sites . On the other front , due to the privacy concerns around Protected Health Information ( PHI ) , genetic information is restrictively protected by sharing according to regulations such as Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ( HIPAA ) ( i . e .
Prostate cancer ( PCa ) is a heritable disease with ancestry-biased incidence and mortality . While their accuracy continues to improve , research aimed at enhancing their effectiveness within African and Asian populations remains key for equitable use . In this study , we benchmark the predictive power of six widely used PRS derivation algorithms against prostate cancer cases and controls from the UK Biobank and All of Us cohorts . We find modest improvement in discriminatory ability when compared with a simple method that prioritizes variants , clumping , and published polygenic risk scores . Our findings underscore the importance of improving upon risk prediction algorithms and the sampling of diverse cohorts in order to limit disparities .
A common disorder in humans is the Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation ( CDG ) . It is caused by mutations in the gene DPAGT1 which encodes the first enzyme in N-linked glycosylation . This enzyme is involved in the synthesis of sugars , and it is important to understand how these sugars are added to specific amino acids . In this study , we performed a drug repurposing screen on a Drosophila rough eye model of CDG with an improperly developed , small eye phenotype . We identified 42 candidate drugs that improved the DPA GT1-CDG model . Notably , loss of both dopamine synthesis and recycling partially rescued the model , suggesting that dopamrgic flux and subsequent binding to D2 receptors is detrimental under DPATT1 deficiency . These drugs and subsequent analyses reveal novel biological interactions in D PAGT1 mechanisms and they may represent new therapeutic options for DPATG1-CDG .
Proprioception is a fundamental sense of movement . It is one of the least understood senses , yet fundamental for the control of movement in the brain . We developed a topographic variational autoencoder with lateral connectivity ( topo-VAE ) to compute a putative cortical map from a large set of natural movement data . Although not fitted to neural data , our model reproduces two sets of observations from monkey centre-out reaching . The shape and velocity dependence of proprioceptive receptive fields in hand-centered coordinates despite the model having no knowledge of arm kinematics or hand coordinate systems .
The role of ethylene in plant-microbe interactions has been explored from the perspective of plants . However , only a small number of studies have examined the role of this molecule in microbes . Here we demonstrate that Azospirillum brasilense contains a functional ethylene receptor that we call AzoSpirillium Ethylene Response1 ( AzoEtr1 ) after the nomenclature used in plants and that it directly binds ethylene with high affinity . We also show that ethylene causes wide-spread metabolic changes that affect carbon and nitrogen metabolism . One result is the accumulation of poly-hydroxybutyrate . Treating cells with ethylene or disrupting the receptor reduces biofilm formation and colonization of plant root surfaces . Our data suggest a model in which ethylene from host plants alters the density of colonization by A . brasiliense and re-wires its metabolism , suggesting that the bacterium implements an adaptation program upon sensing ethylene .
Mammalian gametogenesis involves the division of diploid germ cells that undergo homologous chromosome synapsis and recombination to generate haploid gametes . The meiotic division of spermatocytes involves the silencing of the sex chromomes . During meiosis , DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) at the asynapsed axes are initiated by DNA damage repair ( DDR ) factors such as BRCA1 , ATR , and its activator TOPBP1 at the unpaired ( asynaptic ) chromus axis and the incorporation of DSBR proteins at these hotspots indicating the completion of meiochrome . However , it is unclear whether the chromatin remodeler INO80 plays any role in the meiogenic sileting of the seploid sexes , which are required for the successful initiation of a meiologic sext chromorogenesis . In this study , we explored the role of INO8 in the silenciation of genes on the XY body of pachytene sperm cells . We found that INO 80 immunolocalizes at the autosomes of Ino80-null pachytente  Spermatocyte . Subsequent deletion of ILO80 resulted in a reduction in chromatine accessibility at DNA repair sites , thereby facilitating the silesncing of sx-linked genes . These data suggest a role for INO88 in DNA repair factor localization , thus facilitating s
Injured neurons need to receive accurate and timely information about the extent of axonal damage to successfully increase their intrinsic growth capacity and regenerate . The ability of neurons to regenerate after injury is determined by a complex interplay between their intrinsic grow program and external cues . Recent studies have identified the JNK MAP kinase ( MAPK ) signaling pathway as a key intrinsic regulator of regeneration initiation in C . elegans , including the svh-17/cdd-2 gene encoding cytidine deaminasease ( CDD ) . We have genetically identified several genes ( svah ) involved in the JK signaling cascade that regulates aXon regeneration . In this study , we demonstrate that citode deamination enzyme SVH-17/CDD-2 plays a role in the functional conversion of SV HGF-1 . Furthermore , the stem hairpin structure around the His-755 site in sveh-1 mRNA is required for the activation of the SVh-1 pathway . These results suggest that CDD-2 promotes svoon regeneration by transforming the function of SKH-1 from a proteasé to a growth factor through modification of svih-1 protein .
Zebrafish collective behaviour is widely used to assess their physical and mental state , serving as a valuable tool to assess the impact of ageing , disease genetics , and the effect of drugs . The essence of these macroscopic phenomena can be represented by active matter models , where the individuals are abstracted as interactive self-propelling agents . In a few cases , the system may be controlled at the level of the individual constituents such as the interactions between colloidal particles , or the enzymatic behaviour of de novo proteins . Here , we challenge this scenario in a biological context by genetically modifying zebrafish . We show that the collective behaviour of wildtype and col11a2 -/- zoote is captured with a simple active matter model , in which the mutant fish are modelled by self-proxelling organisms with higher orientational noise on average . Surprisingly , a group of 25 mutant fish exhibited more orderly collective motion than the wildtype .
Capillary plexus cultivation is crucial in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine . Theoretical simulations have been conducted to supplement the expensive experimental works . However , the mechanisms connecting mechanical and chemical stimuli remained undefined , and the functions of the different VEGF forms in the culture environment were still unclear . In this paper , we developed a hybrid model for simulating short-term in vitro capillary incubations . We used the Cellular Potts model to predict individual cell migration , morphology change , continuum mechanics to quantify the biogel deformation and vegf transport dynamics . By bridging the mechanical regulation and chemical stimulation in the model , our results showed good agreement between the predicted network topology and experiments , in which elongated cells connected forming the network cords and round cells gathered , creating cobblestone-like aggregates .
The Transforming Growth Factor beta ( TGF- ) family consists of numerous secreted peptide growth factors that play significant roles in cell function , tissue patterning , and organismal homeostasis , including wound repair and immunity . As in vertebrates , these ligands can be divided into bone morphogenetic protein ( BMP ) and TGF–/Activin subfamilies that predominantly signal through discrete signaling pathways . In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans , there are only five BMP-like or TGF—-like ligans . Here we show that all five TGF – –ligand pairs play a role in survival on bacterial pathogens . We also demonstrate that multiple TGF ( - ) /activin-like pairs act nonredundantly as part of this response . Structural modeling supports the potential for TIG-2 and TIG-3 to form heterodimers . These results demonstrate a novel potential for BMP and TF-/Adrenaline subfamily molecules to interact and may provide a mechanism for distinguishing the developmental and homeostatic functions of these liquors from an acute response such as the innate immune response to bacterial disease .
Cells have evolved mechanisms to counteract the DNA damage response ( DDR ) , a crucial cellular process that safeguards genome integrity . In this study , we show that the epigenetic modifier N-terminal acetyltransferase 4 ( Nat4 ) is implicated in the response to DNA damage in S . cerevisiae . We demonstrate that yeast cells lacking Nat4 have an increased sensitivity to DSBs and accumulate more DNA breaks than wild-type cells . Importantly , the effects of Nat4 in regulating the checkpoint signaling cascade are mediated by its N-termial activity targeted specifically towards histone H4 . Moreover , Mec1 kinases recruitment at double-strand breaks , critical for H2AS129ph deposition and Rad9 retention , are significantly impaired in nat4 cells , suggesting that Nat4 is involved in the DDR associating a new histone-modifying activity in the maintenance of genome integrity and a novel function of the enzyme in the regulation of DNA damage checkpoint activation .
Cancer phylogenies can reveal the evolutionary history of genetically heterogeneous subpopulations of cells from the same cancer . However , these methods become inaccurate when reconstructing a partially built cancer , or , in some cases , fail to recover a phyline altogether . Here , we introduce Orchard , a fast and accurate method that is faster and accurate using up to 1 , 000 mutations . Each factor in this approximate posterior corresponds to a conditional distribution for adding a new mutation . We demonstrate that the large and accurate Phylogenys reconstructed by orchard are useful for identifying patterns of somatic mutations and genetic variations among distinct cancer cell subpopulations . Our evaluations demonstrate that OrcharD outperforms state-of-the-art methods in reconstructing more plausible phylogies across 90 simulated cancers and 14 B-progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( B-ALLs ) .
Immunogenicity prediction is a challenging problem in the development of personalised medicines . The ability to predict the specificity of an antigen is an important goal in the design of new drugs . We describe ImmugenX , a modular protein language modelling approach to immunogenicity prediction for CD8+ reactive epitopes . ImmugentX is based on a pMHC encoding module trained on three pmHC prediction tasks . It outperforms all compared models for each task . In addition , it integrates TCR context information into the model . Compared with state-of-the-art models for every task , ImmugendX performs comparably or better on p MHC binding affinity and eluted ligand prediction , with a 7 % increase in average precision compared to the next best model ( Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve = 0 . 514 ) . Furthermore , we show further improved performance with the integration of TCR contextual information , which locates areas of weakness found across existing models and highlight possible biases in public datasets , as well as highlighting potential bias gaps .
In this study , we used a combination of GWAS and gene-based association analysis with whole-genome resequencing of 230 fast-growing white-feathered chickens to map genes related to meat lightness and redness to a 6 . The causative gene was identified as the protein phosphatase 1 catalytic subunit gamma ( PPP1CC ) , and the novel target gene and variant that can aid in the innovation of meat improvement technology were detected . Through transcriptome and targeted metabolome evidence , our findings revealed that inhibition of PPP1/CC decreased the expression of typical slow-twitch myofiber and myo fiber-type specification genes and enhanced the glycolysis pathway . Inducible skeletal muscle-specific PPP2CC knockout ( PRP1CC-SSKO ) mice were generated and these mice showed increased lightness/redness and decreased myoglobin content in the limb muscles . Functional validation through a plasmid reporter assay revealed that a SNP located in the intron of Ppp1CC could regulate the gene transcription activity . We further validated the causal relationships between PPP1%1CC expression and meat color by Mendelian randomization analyses ( P  2 . 65E-08 ) and Mendelians randomization studies ( P = 8 . 9E-12 ) using a genetic variant . Our results provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms that regulate protein expression .
Inferring the layout of subunits within a ganglion cell’s receptive field is a key step in the understanding of the retina’s functional architecture . In this study , we introduce a new method to efficiently stimulate and locate subunit layouts within the retina . This method combines the functional principles underlying stimulated emission depletion ( STED ) microscopy and computed tomography ( CT ) scans , and we accordingly term it super-resolved , tomographic reconstruction ( STR ) . We demonstrate that this method can reliably identify subunit structures within only a few tens of minutes of recording time , making it ideal for online analysis and closed-loop investigations of relective field substructure in retina recordings . Simulations demonstrate that the method works reliably across a wide range of model variations , demonstrating the experimental feasibility .
Detecting chemical-genetic interactions ( CGIs ) can yield insights into drug targets and mechanisms of action or resistance . To capture this interaction , we propose a novel statistical method called CRISPRi-DR ( for Dose-Response model ) that incorporates both sgRNA efficiencies and drug concentrations in a modified dose-responses equation . This approach can be generalized to non-CGI datasets , which we show via a CGI dataset for E . coli growth on different carbon sources . The objective is to identify CGI mutants whose relative abundance is suppressed ( or enriched ) in the presence of a drug when the target protein is depleted , reflecting synergistic behavior . We observe that the most efficient srRNAs are not always optimal for detecting synergies with drugs .
The transcriptome is structured in more complex ways than previously thought , and that we should revisit the long-standing assumption that modularity is the main driver of the structuring of gene co-expression networks . Here , we use a recently developed community detection method , the weighted degree corrected stochastic block model ( SBM ) , that does not assume that assortative modules exist . We find that the SBM is able to find ten times as many groups as competing methods , but that ( b ) several of those gene groups are not modular and that the functional enrichment for non-modular groups is as strong as for modular communities . These results show that the transcriptome has been structured in a more complex way than traditionally thought .
Cytoplasmic poly ( A ) -binding protein ( Pab1 ) is thought to be involved in multiple steps of post-transcriptional control , including translation initiation , translation termination , and mRNA decay . We have used mass spectrometry to assess the abundance of the components of the yeast proteome , as well as RNA-Seq and Ribo-Sex to analyze changes in the abundance and translation of the mutant yeast transcriptome . Cells devoid of PAB1 also manifested a nonsense codon readthrough phenotype indicative of a defect in translation termination that is partly indirect . Our results indicate that , unlike the loss of simpler regulatory proteins , elimination of cellular Pab2 is profoundly pleiotropic and disruptive to numerous aspects of post–transcriptionally regulation .
In the brain , slow brain rhythms can be accompanied by oscillations in extracellular potassium concentration . These oscillatory behaviours are commonly attributed to ion channels with slow kinetics . However , it is not clear how these oscillators arise . Here , we explore an alternative mechanism generically available to all neurons with class I excitability . This mechanism is based on the interplay of fast-spiking voltage dynamics with a one-dimensional slow dynamics of the extracellular concentration , mediated by the activity of the Na+/K+-ATPase . We show that this coupling suffices to generate a hysteresis loop organized around a bistable region that emerges from a saddle-node loop bifurcation . The identified minimal mechanistic model outlining the sodium-potassium pump's generic contribution to burst dynamics can , therefore , contribute to a better mechanistical understanding of pathologies such as epilepsy syndromes and , potentially , inform therapeutic strategies .
Multi-view clustering algorithms for complex disease subtyping often overlooks aspects like cluster stability and critical assessment of prognostic relevance , and to provide ways of comparing these metrics simultaneously to select the optimal approach for disease subtype discovery in novel datasets . Here , we present COPS ( Clustering algorithm for Omics-driven Patient Stratification and robust evaluation of clustering results ) an R package that provides quick access to a unique compendium of state-of-the-art clustering methods for single- and multi-omic data as well as a robust pipeline to evaluate the reproducibility and prognostitical value of clusterling results in addition to standard clustering metrics . Our framework was rigorously applied to multi-omics data across seven cancer types , including breast , prostate , or lung . We applied the Pareto efficiency concept to gauge the equilibrium of evaluation metrics in each cancer case-study . Emphasizing multi-objective evaluation , our approach contrasts data- and knowledge-driven multi-view Clustering methods and incorporates cross-fold validation for robustness . In addition , current frameworks do not allow for comparison between data-driven and pathway-driven clustering , highlighting a significant gap in the methodology .
The development of multicellular organisms requires well-orchestrated interplay between cell-intrinsic transcription factors and cell-cell signaling . One set of highly conserved transcription factors that plays diverse roles in development is the SoxC group . SEM-2 is essential for embryonic development , and for specifying the sex myoblast ( SM ) fate in the postembryonic mesoderm , the M lineage . We have identified a novel partial loss-of-function sem-2 allele that has a proline to serine change in the C-terminal tail of the highly conservedescribed DNA-binding domain . Detailed analyses of mutant animals harboring this point mutation uncovered new functions of SEM-1 in the dorsal M lineages . Second , in addition to specification of the SM fate , SEM2 is required for the proliferation and diversification of the M linesage , which are required for egg laying . Our data , along with previous studies , suggest an evolutionarily conserved relationship between Sox and Twist proteins .
