The gambiense human African trypanosomiasis ( gHAT , sleeping sickness ) is a fatal vector-borne disease that is transmitted by mosquitoes to humans . In the last two decades , the intensification of intervention activities against the fatal vector borne disease has led to a large decline in the number of annually reported cases . However , pockets of infection remain , and it becomes increasingly important to quantitatively assess if different regions are on track for elimination , or where intervention efforts should be focused . We present a previously developed stochastic mathematical model for gHAT in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( DRC ) and show that this same formulation is able to capture the dynamics of gHIT observed at the health area level ( approximately 10 , 000 people ) . This suggests that expanding health area fitting , to cover more of the DRC should be done with deterministic fits for efficiency , but with stocchastic projections used to capture both the parameter and stochistic variation in case reporting and elimination year estimations . The spatial heterogeneity in cases is reflected in modelling results , where we predict that under the current intervention strategies , Kinzamba II , which has approximately one third of the health zone’s cases , will have the latest expected year for EoT .
Tumor microenvironments ( TMEs ) contain vast amounts of information on patient's cancer through their cellular composition and the spatial distribution of tumor cells and immune cell populations . Moreover , in the face of a large number of cell interactions to consider , we often wish to identify specific interactions that are useful in making such predictions . We present an approach to achieve these goals based on summarizing spatial relationships in the TME using spatial K functions , and then applying functional data analysis and random forest models to both predict outcomes of interest and identify important spatial relationships . Our approach is shown to be effective in simulation experiments at both identifying important spatial interactions while also controlling the false discovery rate .
Neuronal dynamics , synaptic weights , and network structure co-emerge , in particular during ( de ) synchronization processes and how they are affected by external perturbation . We computationally study the impact of different types of plasticity mechanisms , including spike-timing-dependent plasticity ( STDP ) and homeostatic structural plasticity , on the network's level of synchrony . The latter require stimuli of significantly higher intensity to achieve long-term desynchronization . In particular , the strengthening of contacts from neurons with higher natural firing rates to those with lower rates and the weakening of contacts in the opposite direction , followed by selective removal of weak contacts , allows for strong synchronous with fewer connections than in randomly structured networks in the STDP-only model . These findings may inform future pre-clinical and clinical studies with invasive or non-invasive stimulus modalities aiming at inducing long-lasting relief of symptoms , e . g .
Many animals can regenerate large missing regions of their nervous system , requiring mechanisms to restore the pattern , numbers , and wiring of diverse neuron classes . Because injuries are unpredictable , regeneration must be accomplished from an unlimited number of starting points . We found that planarians first regenerate neurons expressing a Delta-encoding gene , delta-2 , at key positions in the central and peripheral nervous systems . Inhibition of delta-2 or notch-1 severely reduced the glia associated with them , but did not affect the specification of other phagocytic cell types . Our results suggest a model in which patterned delta-2-expressing neurons instruct phagocytes to localize into glial cells , providing a mechanism for coordinated regeneration of numbers and pattern of cell types in a regenerating nervous system by any particular neuron population acquiring or losing expression of Delta-2 .
New HIV vaccine approaches are focused on eliciting broadly neutralizing antibodies . We characterized early gamma-delta (  ) T cell responses starting from pre-HIV acquisition and during acute HIV infection ( AHI ) in participants previously characterized for neutralization breadth development . Activation of  T cells occurred within the first weeks of HIV acquisition and associated with viral load . In addition , the levels of CD16 on V1 T cells were associated with early production of founder virus Env-specific IgM . Expression of CD17 on V2 T cells was found to be significantly higher in broad neutralizers during AHI than those that did not . Thus , T cells may promote development of neutralization loafth , which has implications for HIV vaccine strategies .
Bispecific antibodies ( BsAbs ) , which combine two different antigen-binding sites into one molecule , are a promising modality for drug development due to their enhanced avidity and dual targeting effects . However , while BSAbs have tremendous therapeutic potential , elucidating the mechanisms underlying their binding and inhibition will be critical for maximizing the efficacy of new BsB treatments . Here , we describe a quantitative , computational model of the BS1 BsAB , showing how modeling multivalent binding provides key insights into antibody affinity and avidity effects and can guide therapeutic design . We present detailed simulations of the monovalent and bivalent binding interactions between different antibody constructs and the IL-6 and IL-8 receptors to establish how antibody properties and system conditions impact the formation of binary ( antibody-receptor ) and ternary ( receptor-antibody-recognition ) complexes . Our results demonstrate how the balance of these complex types drives receptor inhibition , providing important and generalizable predictions for effective therapeutic design
During cell division , centrosomes help organize spindles , but how these forces and dynamics are tuned to create a stable bipolar structure is poorly understood . Here , we have gained insight into this question through studies of ZYG-8 , a conserved doublecortin-family kinase , which is upregulated in many cancers and has been implicated in cell division but the mechanisms by which it functions are poorly understood; the mammalian homolog of this microtubule-associated protein is upregulation in many tumors . Simultaneously , microtubULe dynamics must be precisely controlled to maintain spindle length and organization . During acentrosomal spindled assembly in C . anegypt , the microtubular minus ends are sorted outwards away from the chromosomes where they form poles , while then these outward forces must be balanced to form a stabilizing bipolar shape . Importantly , experiments with monopolar spindels revealed that ZYF-8 depletion led to excess outward force within the spindlet and suggested a potential role for this protein in regulating the force-generating motor BMK-1/kinesin-5 . Altogether , our findings reveal new roles for ZY G-8 in oocytes and provide insights into how a centrosomal spindLE is stabilized to promote faithful meiosis .
Diabetes mellitus ( T2D ) is a chronic disease that affects over a million people worldwide . The risk of developing complications is high , but the extent to which the genetic regulation of metabolite levels and their genetic regulation remains to be elucidated . In this study , we investigate the interplay between genetics , metabolomics , and T2d risk in the UK Biobank dataset , using the Nightingale panel composed of 249 metabolites , 92% of which correspond to lipids ( HDL , IDL , LDL ) and lipoproteins . We find 79 genes with a causal association to T2 D , all spanning lipid-related classes except for Glucose and Tyrosine . Secondly , by using an interaction quantitative trait locus ( QTL ) analysis , our findings reveal four metabolities consistently replicated in an independent dataset from the Estonian Biobank , for which genetic loci in two different genomic regions show attenuated regulation in T2C cases compared to controls . Overall , this work provides a map of the consequences of T2T on Nightingalle targeted metabolity levels and on their genetic regulatory , leading to a better understanding of the T2-D trajectory leading to complications .
Staphylococcus aureus is a bacterial pathogen that can cause opportunistic infections , ranging from mild skin infections to severe life-threatening conditions . In this study , we identified a Quantitative Trait Locus ( QTL ) peak on chromosome 7 for survival and weight change after infection . Two genes , C5ar1 and C5r2 , have high-impact variants in this region . We hypothesized that C5a may have altered binding to variant receptors in CC024 mice by reducing damage caused by the cytokine storm and resulting in the ability to tolerate a higher pathogen burden and longer survival .
A key expectation from adaptive walk theory is that the distribution of fitness effects of new beneficial mutations is exponential . However , the extent to which networks affect adaptation remains largely unknown . In this study , we model a quantitative trait as the product of a simple gene regulatory network ( the negative autoregulation motif ) . We found that both models harbored distributions with fewer large-effect beneficial alleles than expected . This behavior is reminiscent of the cost of complexity , where correlations among traits constrain adaptation . Our results suggest that the interactions emerging from genetic networks can generate complex and multimodal distributions of fitness effect . As detailed systems models of complex traits become increasingly available , our framework can be employed to simulate the evolution of traits based on empirically-described networks . Future work should focus on leveraging this interdisciplinary potential and on exploring more complex genetic networks to better understand how gene interactions constrain evolution .
A fundamental function of cortical circuits is the integration of information from different sources to form a reliable basis for behavior . While animals behave as if they optimally integrate information according to Bayesian probability theory , the implementation of the required computations in the biological substrate remains unclear . We propose a novel , Bayenian view on the dynamics of conductance-based neurons and synapses which suggests that they are naturally equipped to optimally perform information integration .
Protein structure prediction is a widely used method for determining the structure of proteins . However , it has been difficult to categorize these predictions . Here , we describe the classification and cataloging of domains from 48 whole proteomes deposited in the AlphaFold Database . We enumerate those highly populated domains that are shared in both eukaryotes and bacteria , such as the Rossmann domains , TIM barrels and P-loop domains and discuss groups that have been enriched by structure predictions , including those highly repeated proteins , both globular and small repeats . In addition to containing a higher fraction of disordered regions and unassigned domains ( i . e .
BK polyomavirus ( BKPyV ) is a major cause of kidney transplant failure , for which there are no antivirals . The current model is that the virus expresses TAg ( large T antigen ) early during infection , promoting cells to enter S phase where the viral DNA can access the host replication machinery . By using inhibitors that only affect host and not viral replication , we show that both TAG expression and viral production rely on an initial S phase . We found that these subsequent rounds of replication of the host DNA relied on canonical host cell cycle machinery and regulators despite BKpyV infection . Together , these findings suggest a model for BK PyV replication .
Transcriptome-wide association studies ( TWAS ) have emerged as a powerful tool for identifying gene-trait associations by integrating gene expression mapping studies with genome-wide associations ( GWAS ) . However , these fine-mapping methods have primarily focused on modeling quantitative traits and examining local genomic regions , leading to potentially suboptimal performance . In this study , we present FABIO , a TWAs fine-map method specifically designed for binary traits that is capable of modeling all genes jointly on an entire chromosome . We performed extensive simulations and applied it for in-depth analyses of six binary disease traits in the UK Biobank . Using its improved power , FABo successfully prioritized multiple potentially causal genes associated with the diseases , including GATA3 for asthma , ABCG2 for gout , and SH2B3 for hypertension . FABO effectively controls false discoveries while offering substantial power gains over existing TWA SNP fine-matrix methods .
Protein oxidation is a major cause of toxicity in cells . When misfolded proteins evade quality control , they can be sequestered to specific sites within cells to prevent the potential dysfunction and toxicity that arises from protein aggregation . We have identified the Sup35 translation termination factor as an in vivo sequestrase substrate and show that Btn2 and Hsp42 act to sequester oxidized proteins into defined PQC sites following ROS exposure and their absence leads to an accumulation of protein aggregates . In this study , we show that oxidant-induced formation of the yeast [PSI+] prion , which is the amyloid form of Sup 35 , occurs at multiple intracellular sites following oxidative stress conditions . Our data identify protein sequestration as a key antioxidant defence mechanism that functions to mitigate the damaging consequences of protein oxidating .
Glioblastoma ( GBM ) is a malignant tumor , characterized by aggressiveness and invasion . Invading tumors have been identified as a major cause of cancer , but few studies have evaluated the role of long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) , transcripts without protein-coding potential , for role in GBM invasion and survival . Here , we utilized CRISPR-interference ( CRISPi ) to evaluate association of lcRNA knockdown ( KD ) with invasion capacity in Matrigel . Top screen candidates were validated using CRIS PRi and oligonucleotide ( ASO )-mediated knockdown in three tumor lines . RNA-seq analysis of LINC03045 knockdown revealed that WASF3 , previously implicated in tumor invasion studies , was highly correlated with rRNA expression , while WASF 3 overexpression demonstrated rescue of invasive function lost with LINCC03015 KD in vitro . The top candidate , which was identified from effect size and p-value , demonstrated 82 . 7 % decrease in tumor cell invasion upon knockdown . Forty-eight rncrRNAs were significantly associated with 33–830% decrease in invasion ( p  0 . 01 ) after knockdown and WASF1 overexpression was associated with significant decrease in invade .
We address this issue by using a new clustering procedure for sets of electroencephalographic ( EEG ) data recorded from participants exposed to a sequence of auditory stimuli generated by a stochastic chain . This method indicates that the brain uses the recurrent occurrences of a regular auditory stimulus in order to build a model . We show evidence for the use of the occurrence of strong beats of an auditory sequence to select a random sequence of stimuli .
Single-cell RNA-sequencing ( scRNA ) is a popular method to analyze gene expression and cellular composition at single-cell resolution . However , it harbors shortcomings: The failure to account for cell-to-cell variations of transcriptome-size ( i . e . the total number of transcripts per cell ) and also cell dissociation/processing-induced cryptic gene expression . To fix this problem , we propose a computationally calculated coefficient ,  cell type-specific weighting-factor ( cWF )  . Our study provides an important method to solve critical limitations of single-celled RNA–seq analysis of complex solid tissues/organs . Furthermore , our findings suggest a diagnostic utility and biological significance of c WFs , implicating their diagnostic applications and also their association with aging mechanism .
Mendelian randomization ( MVMR ) is a statistical approach using genetic variants as instrumental variables to estimate the direct effect of a single exposure on an outcome . MR and MVMRI can be biased by the presence of pleiotropic genetic variant in the set used as instrumental variable , violating one of the core IV assumptions . We present simulations that illustrate how outlier removal decreases the bias in estimated effects under various forms of  Pleiotropy . Radial MVRM also includes an option for removal of outlying SNPs which may violate one or more assumptions of MVMRC . A RMVMR R package is presented as accompanying software for implementing the methods described . In combination with simulated examples , we highlight how important features of VMMR analyses can be explored using a range of tools incorporated within the RMVMRC R package .
Animal behavior spans many timescales , from short , seconds-scale actions to daily rhythms over many hours to life-long changes during aging . We use the deep learning framework SLEAP to produce a full-body postural dataset for 47 individuals resulting in nearly 2 billion pose instances . The method , data , and analysis presented here give us a new and clearer picture of Drosophila melanogaster behavior across timescale , revealing novel features that hint at unexplored underlying biological mechanisms .
Protein tyrosine phosphatases non-receptor type ( PTPNs ) have been studied extensively in the context of the adaptive immune system; however , their roles beyond immunoregulation are less well explored . Here we identify novel functions for the conserved C . elegans phosphatease PPTPN-22 , establishing its role in nematode molting , cell adhesion , and cytoskeletal regulation . Through a non-biased genetic screen , we identified candidate interactors of P granule components , including the CDC42 guanine-nucleotide exchange factor DNBP-1 ( human DNMBP ) , which regulates actin assembly by serving as a scaffold for CDC41 . Our findings highlight the utility of combined genetic and proteomic approaches for identifying novel gene functions .
Malaria is a neglected tropical disease caused by the protozoan parasite artemisinin . The current gold standard antimalarial drug , namely artemisine derivatives , is currently ineffective , and it is therefore critical for health organisations to prioritise malaria control measures . We use a comprehensive database from the WorldWide Antimalaral Resistance Network on the prevalence of non-synonymous mutations in the Kelch 13 ( K13 ) gene , which are known to be associated with artemisiinin resistance . Our maps of estimated prevalence show an expansion of the K13 mutation across the Greater Mekong Subregion from 2000 to 2022 . Moreover , the period between 2010 and 2015 demonstrated the most spatial change across the region . If artemiseinin resistance significantly expands to Africa or India , cases and malaria-related deaths are set to increase substantially . This study provides critical information for supporting malaria elimination goals in Southeast Asia .
Inflammasomes are essential components of the innate immune response , and they are essential for the development and maintenance of the immune system . The inflamasome signaling pathway is a key component of innate immunity . NF-binding proteins , such as NLRP1 and CARD8 , are important components of this pathway . However , the detailed mechanism remains elusive . Here , we show that both NF-1 and NF-2 proteins form two conserved autoinhibitory complexes involving NT-CT interactions and cleaved N-terminal ( NT ) peptides that form a ternary complex . We also show that the cellular protease dipeptidyl peptidases 9 ( DPP9 ) interacts with NTs of mNLRP1/b , rNLRP1% , CARD8, and rNRP1 through their ZU5 subdomains . Our study highlights the complexity of their interactions within the immune response and highlights the potential avenues for targeted therapeutic intervention in diseases associated with dysregulated inflammasomal activation .
Defects in protein homeostasis can induce proteotoxic stress , affecting cellular fitness and , consequently , overall tissue health . In various growing tissues , cell competition based mechanisms facilitate detection and elimination of these compromised , often referred to as ‘loser’ cells by the healthier neighbors . Here , we reveal the function of an endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) and Golgi localized protein Rer1 in the regulation of protein homeostatics in the developing Drosophila wing epithelium . Our results show that loss of Rr1 leads to proteotoxicity stress and PERK-mediated phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 . Interestingly , our results suggest that increased levels of RER1 provide cytoprotection to Myc-overexpressing cells by alleviating the proteo toxic stress and supporting the overgrowth . These observations demonstrate that Rer2 acts as a novel regulator of proteostases in Drosquito and reveal its role in competitive cell survival .
In the context of CHEK2 , loss of function mutations are associated with increased risk of breast and other cancers . One successful approach to testing the function of variants has been to test for their ability to complement mutations in the yeast ortholog of chek2 ( RAD53 ) . However , most of the 3 , 188 unique amino acid changes that can result from non-synonymous single nucleotide variants ( SNVs ) have not been tested for their impact on protein function . Here we used a high throughput technique of deep mutational scanning ( DMS ) to test all but two of the 4 , 887 possible SNV in the cheK2 open reading frame for their capability to complement mutants in yeast . The results correlate well with previous structure and function data and provide a first or additional functional assay for all the variants of uncertain significance identified in clinical databases . This approach can be used to help predict the pathogenicity of chemokines that are found in susceptibility screening and could be applied to other cancer risk genes .
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a human pathogen that causes a wide range of bacterial infections , including pneumonia , septicemia , and hemorrhagic fever . Infections with the human protozoan pathogen Klebsiella pneumoniae cause a variety of epigenetic and phenotypic traits , but it is unknown how the pathogen controls the hsdS inversion orientations . Here , we report the discovery of the SpxA1-TenA toxin-antitoxin ( TA ) system that regulates the orientations of hpsrA-driven inversions in the colony opacity-determinant ( cod ) locus . We found that overexpression of toxine TenA led to growth arrest in E . coli and enhanced autolysis in S . pneumoniae . When the transcription of tenA was de-repressed by a spontaneous AT di-nucleotide insertion/deletion in the promoter region of the spxA-1-tenA operon , TenA bound to the ribosome maturation factor RimM , which thereby reduced the cellular level of alternative sigma factor ComX ( known for the activation of natural transformation-associated genes ) . The antitoxin Spx A1 neutralizes the toxic effect of TenA by forming a protein complex under the physiological conditions .
Contrastive principal component analysis ( cPCA ) has been proposed to address this problem because it requires tuning a hyperparameter resulting in multiple solutions , with no way of knowing which is correct . However , traditional dimensionality reduction techniques can not accomplish this because they operate on only one dataset . Here we describe the development of generalized contrastive PCA ( gcPCC ) , a fast , robust , and easy-to-use comparison method that solves these problems . We first provide analyses explaining why c PCA requires a parameter and how g CCA avoids this requirement . Finally , we demonstrate the utility of gCPCA in analyzing diverse high-dimensional biological data , showing unsupervised detection of hippocampal replay in neurophysiological recordings and heterogeneity of type II diabetes in single-cell sequencing data .
B cell receptor ( BCR ) signaling is required for the survival and maturation of B cells and is deregulated in B cell lymphomas . While proximal BCR signaling has been well studied , little is known about the crosstalk of downstream effector pathways , and a comprehensive quantitative network analysis of BCR network signaling was missing . Here , we semi-quantitatively modelled BCR response in Burkitt lymphoma ( BL ) cells using systematically perturbed phosphorylation data of BL-2 and BL-41 cells . The models unveiled feedback and crosstalk structures in the BCR pathway , including a negative crosstalk from p38 to MEK/ERK . Compared to the starting network , the trained network for BL-1 cells was better transferable to BL-4 cells , indicating that BCR aberration does not cause a major downstream rewiring . Importantly , our network model can be applied to the situation in antigen-driven BCR activation and the situation , were the B cell pathway is antigen independently activated , driven by gain-of-function mutations in specific signaling molecules of the BCL pathway ( HBL-1 , OCI-LY3 ) .
The ubiquitous Notch receptor signalling network is essential for tissue growth and maintenance . To date , it has been assumed that these processes involve discrete ligand homomers and not heteromeric complexes composed of more than one ligent species . In this study , we explore the molecular basis of the opposing actions of the Notch ligants , DLL4 and JAG1 , which control angiogenic sprouting . We propose a new model of Notch signalling that recapitulates the formation of tip and stalk cells , necessary for sprouting angiogenesis .
Clustering is widely used in bioinformatics and many other fields , with applications from exploratory analysis to prediction . Many types of data have associated uncertainty or measurement error , but this is rarely used to inform the clustering . We present Dirichlet Process Mixtures with Uncertainty ( DPMUnc ) , an extension of a Bayesian nonparametric clustering algorithm which makes use of the uncertainty associated with data points . Firstly , we demonstrate that when data has associated uncertainty , this uncertainty should be used to explain clustering and we present a method which does this , DPMunc . On a range of simulated datasets , our method out-performs existing methods and the posterior similarity values were shown to be relatively well calibrated , so that if two points have posterior similarities of p , these points are in the same cluster in the true cluster . The significance of this work is two-fold .
Deep neural networks have been remarkably successful as models of the primate visual system . However , they fail to account for the strong shape-dependence of primate vision . We design simple , artificial image datasets in which shape , color , and texture features can be used to predict the image class . By training networks from scratch to classify images with single features and feature combinations , we show that some network architectures are unable to learn to use shape features , whereas others are able to use shapes in principle but are biased towards the other features . This suggests that different learning algorithms with sparser , more local weight changes are required to make networks more sensitive to shape and improve their ability to describe human vision , but the underlying reasons remain unclear .
Hepatic stellate cells ( HSCs ) are the source of extracellular matrix ( ECM ) whose overproduction leads to fibrosis , a condition that impairs liver functions in chronic liver diseases . While inactivation allows elimination of activated HSC during reversion steps , the reactivation loops of inactivated HSC ( iHSCs ] are required to sustain follicular fibrogenesis . Understanding the dynamics of HSC dynamics will provide insights needed to develop new therapeutic approaches . In this study , we developed rule-based models to study HSC dynamic during fibrosion progression and reversal . Simulation studies revealed the critical role of the HSC in activation process during fibrillation , and we demonstrated the model's sensitivity to ( TGF1 ) parameters , suggesting its adaptability to a variety of pathophysiological conditions for which levels of ( TG1) production associated with the inflammatory response differ . Moreover , our model can also be generalized to other tissue types . Our study provides two major findings .
Large-scale genomic consortia , such as the Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine ( TOPMed ) program , comprise multiple cohorts with diverse technologies to elucidate the genetic architecture and biological mechanisms underlying complex human traits and diseases . Meta-analysis is used to aggregate the effects of interest across multiple studies , while its methodology is largely underexplored in mediation analysis , particularly in estimating the total mediation effect of high-dimensional omics mediators . We developed a novel meta-analysis framework requiring only summary statistics and allowing inter-study heterogeneity . Our extensive simulations showed that the proposed method was more computationally efficient and yielded satisfactory operating characteristics comparable to analysis of the pooled individual-level data when there was no inter-studied heterogenity , highlighting the efficiency of our method in handling the computational burden caused by large-scale studies .
In this study , we propose a novel method ( PDRWH ) , which aims to prioritize the mutated genes of a single patient based on their impact on the abnormal expression of downstream genes across a group of patients who share the co-mutation genes and similar gene expression profiles . We also validated one of our predicted novel personalized driver genes on tumor cell proliferation by vitro cell-based assays , the promoting effect of the high expression of Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 ( LRP1 ) on cancer cell proliferation . The personalized driver profiles could improve tumor stratification , providing new insights into understanding tumor heterogeneity and taking a further step toward personalized treatment .
The Virtual Epileptic Patient ( VEP ) is a computer-based representation of a patient with epilepsy that combines personalized anatomical data with dynamical models of abnormal brain activities . The approach utilizes SaCeSS , a cooperative metaheuristic algorithm capable of parallel computation , to yield high-quality solutions without requiring excessive computational time . Through extensive benchmarking on synthetic data , our proposal successfully solved a set of different configurations of VEP models , showing better scalability and superior performance against other parallel solvers . Additionally , we added a scalable uncertainty quantification phase after model calibration , and used it to assess the variability in estimated parameters across different problems . Overall , this study highlights the potential of our global optimization approach in contributing to more informed clinical decision-making through fast and accurate parameter estimation .
Tuberculosis ( TB ) , the disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculoses ( Mtb ) is a major health problem with 10 . 6 million cases of the disease and 1 . 3 million deaths in 2021 . The rate of TB replication and death in lungs of patients or animals such as monkeys or rabbits remains largely unknown . We performed experiments with rabbits infected with a novel , virulent clinical isolate of the Beijing lineage , HN878 , carrying an unstable plasmid pBP10 . In our in vitro experiments we found that the kinetics of bacterial cells in the lung of MtB-infected rabbits did not follow an expected monotonic decline . Mathematical modeling suggested that such a non-monotonic change in the percent of plasmite-bearing cells can be explained if the lung Mtbacteria population consists of several ( at least 2 ) sub-populations with different replication/death kineticities: one major population expanding early and being controlled/eliminated , while another a smaller population expanding at later times causing a counterintuitive increase in the percentage of cytoplasmic cells . Our new data and mathematical modeling-based analyses illustrate differences in Mt Bacterial Dynamics in Mice and Rabbits confirming a perhaps somewhat obvious observation that  rabbits are not mice .
Glycans are a group of sugar polymers , which are used as scaffolds to display viral antigens . However , experimental structure determination of glycoproteins is notoriously difficult . In this work , we developed a glycan-modeling algorithm that computationally builds glycoprotein structures layer-by-layer , using adaptive kernel density estimates ( KDE ) of common glycosylation conformations derived from data in the Protein Data Bank ( PDB ) and quantum mechanics ( QM ) calculations . We employed these tools to design de novo glycoprotein trees into a protein nanoparticle vaccine to shield regions of the scaffold from antibody recognition , and experimentally verified shielding . Structures predicted by GlyCanTreeModeler agreed with native structures at high accuracy for both de novon modeling and experimental density-guided building . This work will inform glycoprotein model prediction , glcan masking , or further aid computational methods in experimental structure identification and refinement .
The ubiquitination field is a major bottleneck in the elucidation of protein quality . In this study , we have identified a pair of proteins , SCFFbx23-Ace1 , which is conserved in P . oxalicum . We found that PoFbx 23 is able to recognize and activate the target protein , allowing the latter to regulate the transcription of target genes with different effects ( activating or repressing ) under different signals . This is the first study to identify a ubibitin ligase-substrate pair , SCF ( Skp1-Cullin-F-box ) . SCF is the determinant of substrate specificity . A small portion of SCF binds promoters of the target gene , including the cellulase genes cbh1 and eg1 . Under cellulose signal , Poace1 gene transcription is significantly upregulated . Deleting the Pofbx21 gene does not affect the transcription levels of the brlA gene which encodes the master regulator for asexual development and six spore pigmentation genes ( abrB ) which encode the proteins in the dihydroxynaphthalene-melanin pathway , along with impaired conidiation .
The basement membrane ( BM ) is an essential structural element of tissues , and its diversification participates in organ morphogenesis . However , the traffic routes associated with BM formation and the mechanistic modulations explaining its diversity are still poorly understood . Here , we determined the specific molecular identity and cell exit sites of BM protein secretory routes . We found that Rab10 and Rab8 define two parallel routes for BM proteins secretion . DAPC was essential for fibril formation and sufficient to reorient BM production towards the Rab10 route . The exocyst complex directly interacted with dystrophin to limit its planar polarization . Furthermore , our results revealed a dual function for the exoCystic complex in this context . In addition , a double function for Rab10 was also required for the Rab8 route , suggesting that a similar function is present also in muscle cells .
Antibodies can be used to treat many diseases , including HIV-1 . However , the ability to predict HIV-1 resistance to broadly neutralizing antibodies ( bnAbs ) is an unsolved problem . One challenge is that some HIV-1 subtypes in currently available training datasets are underrepresented , which likely affects models' generalizability across subtype types . We develop a new model and show that , beyond the boost in performance , MTL also helps address the previous two challenges . Our analyses , publicly available at https: //github , can be adapted to other infectious diseases that are treated with antibody therapy .
Multiple myeloma ( MM ) is a hematological disease exhibiting aberrant clonal expansion of cancerous plasma cells in the bone marrow . Most previous models were constructed at the gene level , ignoring the fact that the dysfunction of the pathway is closely associated with disease development and progression . The present study considered two strategies that construct predictive models by taking pathway information into consideration: pathway score method and group lasso using pathway information . We implemented these methods in microarray data for MM and obtained a candidate model with the best prediction performance in interval validation . Our candidate model is further compared with the gene-based model and previously published models in two external data . Vax ( grp ) also outperformed the previously published model . Immune information , including VAX pathways , seemed to be more predictive for mm . Moreover , the presence of missing values ( 5% ) would not evidently deteriorate its prediction accuracy using our missing data imputation method .
Mitochondrial fission is a complex biological process that involves the disassembling of oligomers on the outer mitochondrial membrane . In response to cellular insult , the mitochondrial fissing process is associated with reduced energy production and programmed cell death . We develop a nonlinear dynamical systems model of dynamin related protein one ( Drp1 ) -dependent mitochondrial Fission and use it to identify parameters which can regulate the total fisson rate ( TFR ) as a function of time . Though the nondimensionalization of the system results in four dimensionless parameters , we found that the TFR and the cumulative total fistision ( TF ) depend strongly on only one ,  . Interestingly , this non-monotone dependence on  suggests interventions targeting k+ / k , or M may have a no-intuitive impact on the fisision mechanism . Thus understanding the impact of regulatory parameters such as  may assist future therapeutic target selection .
Using CRISPR-based gene drives to control disease-transmitting vectors and agricultural pests is a promising and innovative approach , but as a species with a high level of genetic polymorphism , such genetic background may limit the spread of gene drive alleles . In this study , we constructed a 3-gRNA homing gene drive system targeting the recessive female fertility gene Tyrosine decarboxylase 2 ( Tdc2 ) in Drosophila suzukii , a notorious fruit pest . Our study revealed only a low level of homination in the germline , and feeding octopamine restored the egg-laying defects in mutant females allowing easier line maintenance than for other suppression drive targets . We also tested the effectiveness of a similar system in D . melanogaster and constructed additional split drive systems by introducing promoter-Cas9 transgenes to improve humming efficiency . Furthermore , this study highlights the potential of conditionally rescuing the female infertility caused by the gene drive , offering a valuable tool for the industrial-scale production of genetic drive transgenic insects .
The brain has evolved to be able to learn using as little energy as possible . Experiments have shown that learning simple conditioning tasks which might require only a few synaptic updates , already carries a significant metabolic cost . In biology networks are often much larger than the task requires , yet vanilla backprop prescribes to update all synapses . We explored the energy required for learning in feedforward neural networks . Thus competitively restricting plasticity helps to save metabolic energy associated to synaptical plasticity . Moreover , we propose two plasticity restricting algorithms that save energy . Based on a parsimonious energy model , our proposed algorithms can be refined and the efficiency of the proposed algorithms could be re-examined . The results might lead to a better understanding of biological plasticity and a more match between artificial and biological learning .
During natural or engineered genome streamlining , deletion of many non-essential genes in combination often reduces bacterial fitness for idiosyncratic or unknown reasons . We investigated how and to what extent laboratory evolution could overcome these defects in six variants of the transposon-free Acinetobacter baylyi strain ADP1-ISx that each had a deletion of a different 22- to 42-kilobase region and two strains with larger deletions of 70 and 293 kilobases . Fitness increased in all cases that were examined except for two ancestors that each failed to improve in one of the two environments . Mutations in the global post-transcriptional regulators rnd , csrA , and hfq were frequently mutated across all strains , though the incidence and effects of these mutations on gene function and fitness varied with the ancestral deletion and evolution environment . More generally , our results demonstrate that fitness lost during gene streamlining can usually be regained rapidly through laboratory evolution and that recovery tends to occur through a combination of deletion specific compensation and global regulatory adjustments .
In a wide range of biological processes , precise regulation of gene expression can be achieved using site-directed recombinases and endonucleases . However , their efficiency is variable and dependent on the genomic context . Here , we develop a self-cleaving ribozyme-based tool to control mRNA levels of endogenous targets in zebrafish . We first show that inserting the T3H48 self-cleaving enzyme in an intron enables rapid pre-mRNA cleavage , with up to 20-fold reduction in expression , and that this enzyme displays superior activity compared with other ribolites . Furthermore , a Cre- and Dre-controllable Gal4/UAS reporter in the RiboFlip cassette can label knocked-down cells independently of the expression of the target gene . RibOlip activation induced a pigmentation phenotype similar to that in the mutant . Altogether , our approach is an alternative to existing conditional knockdown strategies .
Convolutional neural networks ( CNNs ) can detect these structures also in only transmitted light images . However , this approach currently requires optimized experimental conditions and computational specialists . Here , we introduce “aiSEGcell” , a user-friendly CNN-based software to segment nuclei in bright field images , proven to work across various computational environments and user coding proficiency levels . We provide this curated ground-truth data with 1 . 1 million nuclear markers ground truth segmentations of more than 20 , 000 images and 1 , 100 ,000 nucleoi , covering 11 unique cell types ( one cell line , 10 primary cell types; Figs 1-3 and Table 1 ) . This eliminates the need for transgenic or dye fluorescent labeling , frees up imaging channels , reduces phototoxicity and speeds up imaging . It retains biologically relevant information even when using the segmentation as the basis for quantitative quantification of noisy biosensors reporting signaling pathway activity dynamics . aIsEGcell is agnostic to computational environments , does not require user expert coding experience , and is readily adaptable to new use cases .
Identifying goal-relevant features in novel environments is a central challenge for efficient behaviour . One such property is the rate of change of features , given that behaviourally relevant processes tend to change on a slower timescale than noise . To test this idea , 295 human participants were asked to learn the rewards of two-dimensional bandits when either a slow or fast changing feature of the bandit predicted reward . Across two experiments and one preregistered replication , participants accrued more reward when a bandit's relevant feature changed slowly , and its irrelevant feature quickly , as compared to the opposite . Testing how feature speed could affect learning with a set of four function approximation Kalman filter models revealed that participants had a higher learning rate for the slow feature and adjusted their learning to both the relevance and the speed of feature changes . We did not find a difference in the ability to generalise to unseen feature values between conditions . These results provide evidence that human reinforcement learning favours slower features . This suggests a bias in how humans approach reward learning .
Metastatic disease is the primary cause of mortality in most solid tumors , often occurring shortly after diagnosis . Understanding metastatic biology is crucial for effective intervention . Here , we extend those studies to identify Resf1 , a poorly characterized gene , as a novel metastasis susceptibility gene in ER- breast cancer . Reduction of Resf1% resulted in a significant increase in tumor growth , an increased overall survival time , and increased incidence and number of lung metastases , consistent with patient data . Mechanistic analysis revealed a potential role of ReSF1 in transcriptional control through association with compound G4 quadruplexes in expressed sequences . These results suggest that loss of Ref1 enhances tumor progression in erotic ER– breast cancer through multiple alterations in both transcriptional and translational control .
During meiosis , programmed DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are formed by the topoisomerase-like enzyme Spo11 , activating the DNA damage response ( DDR ) kinase Mec1ATR via the checkpoint clamp loader Rad24RAD17 . Despite these differences , complex multi-chromatid events initiated by closely spaced DSBSs-rare in wild-type cells-occur more frequently in the absence of either Rad24 or Mec1/Rad24 , suggesting a loss of spatial regulation at the level of DSb formation in both . In line with previous studies , we observe severe impacted spore viability and a reduction in the frequency of recombination upon deletion of RAD24-driven by a shortened prophase . By contrast , loss of Mec2 function increases recombine frequency , consistent with its role in DS B trans-interference , and has less effect on sporophytic sporele viability . Collectively , our results highlight separable roles for Rad24 as a pro-CO factor and for Mec-1 as an regulator of the spatial regulation of crossovers .
The fungus Pneumocystis jirovecii is a deadly pathogen of humans that causes life-threatening pneumonia in immunocompromised individuals and transplant patients . However , limited progress has been made in dissecting the pathobiology of this bacterium , hampering research efforts . We present a comprehensive in silico genome-scale metabolic model of Pneumystis growth and metabolism , to identify metabolic requirements and imbalances that hinder growth in vitro . This is largely due to the fact that its experimental dissection has been constrained by the inability to culture the organism . In addition , we employ relaxed Flux Balance Analysis and Reinforcement Learning approaches to make predictions regarding metabolic fluxes and to identify critical components of the Pneumecystasis growth medium . Our findings offer insights into the biology of this fungal pathogen and provide a novel strategy to overcome the longstanding challenge of culturing this pathogen .
The transcriptional coactivator Yes-associated protein ( YAP ) /transcriptional co-activator with PDZ binding motif ( TAZ ) induces cell proliferation through nuclear localization at low cell density . We set cell cycles composed of mitotic and cell growth phases in which cells divide and grow under the influence of cell kinetics . In this study , we construct a three-dimensional ( 3D ) mathematical model of cell proliferation incorporating the Hippo-YAP/TAZ pathway . Our model incorporates cell dynamics and intra-cellular dynamics , allowing us to simulate cell proliferation as an output response , providing a more detailed and dynamic representation of how intracellular signaling modulates cell division decisions .
Many eukaryotic proteins and RNAs contain low-complexity domains ( LCDs ) with a strong propensity for binding and driving phase separation into biomolecular condensates . Mutations in LCDs frequently disrupt condensed dynamics , resulting in pathological transitions to solid-like states . Understanding how the molecular sequence grammar of LCDs governs condensesate dynamics is essential for uncovering their biological functions and the evolutionary forces that shape these sequences . Here , we present an energy landscape framework that operates on a continuous ‘stickiness’ energy scale rather than relying on an explicit alphabet-based sequence . We demonstrate that minimum sticker periodicity is crucial for maintaining fluidity in condensions , while random sequences exhibit viscosity-dominated properties . Our results reveal that minimum sticky periodicity , as measured by the degree of complexity in LCD arrangements , is crucial to maintain fluidity . Moreover , our work provides a unifying perspective on the sequence-encoded material properties whereby key features of energy landscapes are conserved while sequences are variable .
The development of ectodermal organs begins with the formation of a stratified epithelial placode that progressively invaginates into the underlying mesenchyme as the organ takes its shape . Signaling by secreted molecules is critical for epitelia morphogenesis , but how that information leads to cell rearrangement and tissue shape changes remains an open question . Here , we first establish that non-muscle myosin II is essential for dental epithelium development and show that it functions by promoting cell-cell adhesion and persistent convergent cell movements in the suprabasal layer . Our results support a model in which the Shh signaling from the initiation knot controls early tooth development by activating MyoII in the tooth bud , which in turn promotes cell–cell attachment and persistent cell movement to drive convergend extension and invasiation of the incisor epithelia . Together , our results support the hypothesis that Shh signals are transmitted through myoSin II to power efficient cellular rearrangements and tissue shapes during tooth morphology .
The rapid advance of large-scale atlas-level single cell RNA sequences and single-cell chromatin accessibility data provide extraordinary avenues to broad and deep insight into complex biological mechanism . However , the current label transfer methods have limited performance , largely due to the lower capable of preserving fine-grained cell populations and intrinsic or extrinsic heterogeneity between datasets . Here , we present a robust deep transfer model based graph convolutional network ( scTGCN ) , which achieves versatile performance in preserving biological variation , while achieving integration hundreds of thousands cells in minutes with low memory consumption . We show that scaTGCN is powerful to the integration of mouse atlase data and multimodal data generated from APSA-seq and CITE-Seq . Leveraging the datasets and transfering labels from sceq to scatac-seleq will empower the exploration of single-celled omics data . Thus , our method shows high label transfer accuracy and effectively knowledge transfer across different modalities .
Nuclear localization sequences ( NLSs ) are short motifs rich in basic amino acids . However , identifying NLS can be challenging due to the lack of a universally conserved sequence . In this study , we characterized the sequence specificity of an essential and conserved NLS in Mcm3 , which is a subunit of the replicative DNA helicase . We show that the precise positioning of basic residues within the NLS is critical for nuclear import of Mcm3, resulting in defective chromatin loading of the MCM complex and poor cell growth . Our results provide a structure-guided framework for predicting and analyzing monopartite NLS .
Ataxin-2 ( ATXN2 ) is a gene implicated in spinocerebellar ataxia type II ( SCA2 , amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) and Parkinsonism . Previous work has shown that the LSm ( Like-Sm ) domain of ATX2 – which can help stimulate mRNA translation – antagonizes mRNP-granule assembly , a process mediated by intrinsically disordered regions ( IDRs ) . Here we advance these findings through a series of experiments on Drosophila and human ATXIN-2 proteins . We show that while the Atx2-LSm domain may protect against neurodegeneration , structured PAM2- and unstructured IDR-interactions both support Atx2 induced cytotoxicity . Taken together , the data lead to a proposal for how the A taxin-2 interactions are remodelled during translational control and how structured and non-structured interactions contribute differently to the specificity and efficiency of RNP granulate condensation as well as to neurodegenerative .
Muscle stem cells ( MuSCs ) are a group of cell types that are essential for the development of muscle cells . In particular , they are important for the formation of muscle fibers and for the maintenance of the muscle axis . However , it is not clear how these cells are maintained in specific muscle groups . Here , we show that Pitx2 , a key regulator of MuSC specification and differentiation , becomes progressively dispensable for specification and maintenance of this cell pool in extraocular muscles . We also show that MuSC in the EOMs adopt a quiescent state earlier than those in limb muscles and do not spontaneously proliferate in the adult . Furthermore , while limb Muscle Stem Cells progenitor survival and activation of the downstream myogenic factors are dependent on either Myf5 or Mrf4 , Pitx2-mediated regulation of MuStem Cells during early development leads to a greater loss of MuCs in the mdx mouse model for Duchenne muscular dystrophy . Overall , our study provides a comprehensive in vivo characterisation of muStem heterogeneity along the body axes and brings further insights into the unusual sparing of EOM muscles during muscular dystrophic changes .
In this study , we propose an SI1...InR infectious disease model to simulate the spread of SARS-CoV-2 variants among the human population . We combine the proposed epidemic model and reported infected data of variants with physical information neural networks ( PINNs ) to develop a novel mechanism called VOCs-informed neural network ( VOCS-INN ) . In our experiments , our algorithm can accurately fit the reported data of the British Columbia ( BC ) province and its five internal health agencies in Canada . Our experimental results also reveal variations in the intensity of control strategies implemented across these regions . These variants may show distinct levels of virulence , antigenicity , and infectivity , which require specific defense and control measures .
Image-based cell profiling is a powerful tool that compares perturbed cell populations by measuring thousands of single-cell features and summarizing them into profiles . Typically a sample is represented by averaging across cells , but this fails to capture the heterogeneity within cell populations . We introduce CytoSummaryNet , a Deep Sets-based approach that improves mechanism of action prediction by 30% to 68% in mean average precision compared to average profiling on a public dataset . CytoSoumnaryNet uses self-supervised contrastive learning in a multiple-instance learning framework , providing an easier-to-apply method for aggregating single-celled feature data than previously published strategies . Interpretability analysis suggests that the model achieves this improvement by downweighting small mitotic cells or those with debris and prioritizing large uncrowded cells .
The ability to solve complex tasks relies on the adaptive changes occurring in the spatio-temporal organization of brain activity under different conditions . Altered flexibility in these dynamics can lead to impaired cognitive performance , manifesting for instance as difficulties in attention regulation , distraction inhibition , and behavioral adaptation . Therefore , developing quantitative measures that can directly assess the effort involved in these transitions using neural data is of paramount importance . In this study , we propose a framework to associate cognitive effort during the performance of tasks with electroencephalography ( EEG ) activation patterns . The methodology relies upon the identification of discrete dynamical states ( EEB microstates ) and optimal transport theory . Such impairments result in decreased efficiency and increased effort in accomplishing goal-directed tasks . Our findings reveal an increased cost linked to cognitive effort , thus confirming the framework's effectiveness in capturing and quantifying cognitive transitions .
The generation of P . vivax Duffy Binding Protein II ( PvDBPII ) probes has been a major challenge in malaria research . To date , the generation and function of PvBDPII-specific aMBCs and their function in protective humoral immune responses is unknown . In this study , we generated a single MBC cultured , and the secreted IgG was tested for binding and inhibition activity . The aBC-derived clones produced antibodies with variable levels of anti-PvDBBII IgF in cultures , as well as some produced high antibody levels comparable to classical MBCs . Notably , B cell receptors ( BCRs ) expressed unique IGHV genes , with similar usage of IHGV1-3 , comparable to classic MBC clone . Our findings revealed that P  . falciparum infections elicited the development and persistence of Pp .
In this work , we introduce mr . mash-rss , a flexible and computationally efficient method that models multiple phenotypes jointly and leverages sharing of effects across such phenortypes to improve prediction accuracy . We also present a real data analysis of 16 blood cell phenometypes in the UK Biobank , showing that , although the model requires only summary statistics from Genome-Wide Association Studies ( GWAS ) and linkage disequilibrium ( LD ) estimates from a reference panel , it is competitive with state-of-the-art methods for single- and multi-phenotypic polygenic prediction in a variety of scenarios that differ in the pattern of effect sharing across proxies , the number of phenonotype types , and the genomic heritability . By using summary data , our goal is to increase the applicability of the mR . Mash-Rss model to data sets that are not publicly available and making it scalable to biobank-size data . In addition , through simulations and real data analyses using the British Biobank we show that m R . S . Hayes-Ross outperforms competing methods for the majority of traits , especially when the data set has smaller sample size . This holds good promise for improving prediction accuracy for traits that are difficult to measure and in samples of individuals of non-European descent , which are usually much smaller . Future research is needed to find a more principled way to select hyperparameters that works well with arbitrary patterns of sparsity in the genetic architecture of complex traits .
In this study , we propose a novel modelling framework integrating the spatio-temporal heterogeneity of susceptible individuals into homogeneous models , by introducing a continuous recruitment process for the susceptibles . Our simulations demonstrate that heterogenity decreases herd immunity for 37 and prolongs the outbreak period from 30 days to 70 days , also aligning with the real case . We pre-set a specific form for the recruitment rate and develop a mechanistic model . The results indicate an attack rate and a peak of new infections of 80 . 7% of the population , respectively , compared with the homogenerous model's projections of 99 . 6 % improvement in the prediction accuracy based on the actual data .
Synapses in the brain are highly noisy , which leads to a large trial-by-trial variability . Given how costly synapses are in terms of energy consumption , these high levels of noise are surprising . Here we propose that a synapse as a whole interacts with the soma of its postsynaptic neuron in a similar way to an agent that is situated and behaves in an uncertain , dynamic environment . In addition , this approach entails that synapes use an implicit internal model of the somatic membrane dynamics that is being updated by a synaptic learning rule . This framework resembles experimentally well-established LTP/LTD mechanisms . Our results complement previous applications of PP on the system and network level , and demonstrates that manifestations of SPP can be identified even on the smallest scales of brain function .
Single-cell DNA sequencing technologies enable detailed analyses of development , differentiation , and cancer progression . These methods typically operate in the standard phylogeny setting and require a good set of initial trees for their analysis . However , it can be enhanced to handle cancer data by incorporating copy number variations into its model . We present Scuphr , a probabilistic framework that reconstructs cell lineage trees from healthy , diploid single-cells using whole-genome amplified DNA sequencing data . ScupHr computes the distance between cell pairs and reconstructs the lineage tree using the neighbor-joining algorithm . The method's robustness is investigated using various synthetic datasets and a biological dataset of 18 cells .
Efforts to achieve this are often framed through the lens of “health benefits packages” ( HBPs ) , which seek to establish which services the public healthcare system should include in its provision . Analytic approaches widely used to weigh evidence in support of different interventions and inform the broader HBP deliberative process however have limitations . In this work , we propose the individual-based Thanzi La Onse ( TLO ) model as a uniquely-tailored tool to assist in the evaluation of Malawi-specific HBP . We found that the HBP emerging from a linear constrained optimisation analysis ( LCOA ) achieved the largest health gain—8 % reduction in disability adjusted life years ( DALYs , between 2023 and 2042 ) between 2024 and 2041 compared to the benchmark scenario . By mechanistically modelling-and calibrating to extensive , country-specific data , the incidence of disease , health-seeking behaviour , and the capacity of the healthcare system to meet the demand for care under realistic constraints on human resources for health available , We were able to simulate the health gains achievable under a number of plausible HBP strategies for the country .
Meiosis is a process of chromosome segregation in the germline , which is essential for reproductive success across species . However , the mechanisms underlying meiotic events such as homolog pairing and chromosomal segregations are not fully understood in many species , as employing novel organisms can lead to the discovery of novel biology . Here , we employ Oligopaint DNA FISH to investigate mechanisms of meiothelial homolog pair and cell division in the holocentric pantry moth , Plodia interpunctella , and compare our findings to new and previous studies in the silkworm moth Bombyx mori , that diverged from P . interpuncktella over 100 million years ago . Surprisingly , in both species we find that kinetochores consistently assemble at non-telomeric loci toward the center of chromatids regardless of where chromatosome centers are located in the bivalent . Additionally , sister kinetochore domains do not seem to be paired in these species ; instead , four distinct kientochores are easily observed at metaphase I . Our findings suggest that homolog recognition and pairing initiation are conserved across Lepidoptera and possibly more broadly across species as transcription-related .
The median eminence ( ME ) is a central centre of information exchange between the brain and the pituitary . In the absence of SOX3/Sox3 , the endocrine cell maturation is impaired , resulting in hypopituitarism . We have previously shown that mutations and duplications affecting the transcription factor SOX3 result in Hypopitutarism and this is likely of hypothalamic origin . Here , we demonstrate that the absence or absence of Sox3 predominantly affects the ME with phenotypes that first occur in juvenile animals . Despite the embryonic onset of SOx3 expression , ME NG2-glia renewal and oligodendrocytic differentiation potential are affected . Low-dose aspirin treatment , which is known to affect NG2-glia , rescues both proliferative defects and hypopitus . Our study highlights a key role of NG2/NG2 in ME function during a transitional period of post-natal development and indicates their sensitivity to extrinsic signals .
In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans , embryonic epidermal morphogenesis is controlled by a two-component GTPase , CED-5/CED-12 . The two-part GAP , or Guanine-nucleotide Exchange Factor , is known to activate CED-10/Rac1 to promote cell movements that result in the engulfment of dying cells during embryogenesis , and a later cell migration of the larval Distal Tip Cell . To address how CED-12/CADE-5 could have two opposing effects on F-actin , during embryonic cell migrations . We investigated if CED-13/CDE-12 harbors GAP functions . Mutating a candidate catalytic Arginine in CED-15/DOCK predicted to bind and stabilize Rac1 for catalysis , resulted in loss of both ventral enclosure and corpse engufment . Thus , we propose that CED-11/CDK support the cycling of multiple GTPatases , by using distinct domains to both promote and inhibit F-ACTIN nucleation .
A core challenge for the brain is to process information across various timescales , especially in rodents . Recent evidence from spike recordings of the rodent visual system seems to conflict with this hypothesis . Here , we used an optimized information-theoretic and classical autocorrelation analysis to show that information- and correlation time scales of spiking activity increase along the anatomical hierarchy of the mouse visual system under visual stimulation , while information- theoretic predictability decreases ; a similar hierarchy , whereas the hierarchy of predictability was stimulus-dependent . We could reproduce these observations in a basic recurrent network model with correlated sensory input .
Transcranial magnetic stimulation ( TMS ) is a non-invasive , FDA-cleared treatment for neuropsychiatric disorders with broad potential for new applications , but the neural circuits that are engaged during TMS are still poorly understood . The study goal was to use epidural recordings from the cervical spine of human subjects to develop a computational model of a motor cortical macrocolumn through which the mechanisms underlying the response to TMS could be investigated . Moreover , activation of both afferents to the motor cortex as well as specific neuron types within this motor cortex initiated different I-waves , and the results were interpreted to propose the cortically origins of elicitors that may give rise to certain I- waves .
Cell-free placental DNA ( cfpDNA ) is present in maternal circulation during gestation , which previously required invasive placenta sampling procedures . However , the basic biology of dna chromatin modification remains poorly understood , limiting the research and clinical utility of this molecule . This review will examine the current knowledge of cmfpD , including origins and molecular characteristics , highlight gaps in knowledge , and discuss future research directions .
Hormone-dependent cancers ( HDCs ) share several risk factors , suggesting a common aetiology . We used data from genome-wide association studies , epigenomic profiling and promoter capture HiC maps from diverse cell line models , to annotate 53 candidate risk genes at 22 multi-HDC risk regions , contrasting with genetically uncorrelated traits . Using GWAS data , we identified 44 multi- HDC risk areas across the genome , defined as overlapping risk regions for at least two HDC . Two regions contained risk variants for all four HDC's , 13 for three HDC’s and 28 for two HDA’s . Our approach provides a framework for identifying common target genes driving complex traits and enhances understanding of HDC susceptibility .
Polymyositis is a common autoimmune disease in humans . The occurrence of the disease was suggestive of an inherited cause . In this study , we characterized polymyotis in the Dutch Kooiker dog . 25 in a random sample of the breed . A genome-wide association study of 33 cases and 106 controls indicated the involvement of a region on chromosome CFA19 ( p = 4 . 81 ) . Postulating causality , the penetrance to the disease phenotype was estimated at 10–20% for homozygous dogs and 0 . 5–20% for heterozygously dogs . Our results suggest that elements located 10-49 kb upstream of the IL21/IL2 locus play an important role in the regulation of the canine genes and that deletion of these elements may be a risk factor for polymyonotic diseases .
Protein stability plays a crucial role in a variety of applications , such as food processing , therapeutics , and the identification of pathogenic mutations . In this work , we explore utilizing a mega-scale dataset to develop a protein language model optimized for stability prediction . ESMtherm is trained on the folding stability of 528k natural and de novo sequences derived from 461 protein domains and can accommodate deletions ( insertions ) and multiple-point mutations ( deletions ). ESM thermo performs reasonably on small protein domain and generalizes to sequences distal from the training set . Our results highlight the need for large-scale stability measurements on a diverse dataset that mirrors the distribution of sequence lengths commonly observed in nature . Lastly , We discuss our model's limitations compared to other state-of-the-art methods in generalizing to larger protein scaffolds 
Inhibitory killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors ( iKIRs ) are a family of inhibitory receptors that are expressed by natural killer ( NK ) cells and late-stage differentiated T cells . In T1D , variation in the Human Leucocyte Antigen ( HLA ) genes explains up to 50% of the genetic risk , indicating that T cells have a major role in T 1D etiopathogenesis . Recently , we reported that T cell-mediated control was enhanced by iKIRs in chronic viral infections . We conducted an immunogenetic analysis of a case-control T1C dataset ( N = 11 , 961 ) and found that iKER genes , in the presence of genes encoding their ligands , have reversible and significant effects on protective HLA class II genetic associations . Our results were validated in an independent data set .
Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy ( FECD ) is an age-related cause of vision loss , and the most common repeat expansion-mediated disease in humans characterised to date . The non-coding nature of the repeat and the transcriptomic complexity of TCF4 have made it extremely challenging to experimentally decipher the molecular mechanisms underlying this disease . Here we comprehensively describe CTG18 . 1-expanded ( Exp+ ) and CTG 18 . 1 may increase EFCD risk . Moreover , differential exon usage , pathway enrichment and spatial transcriptomics highlight the total transcriptomic consequences of Exp-positive . In summary , our study supports the hypothesis that at least two distinct pathogenic mechanisms , RNA toxicity and TCF 4 isoform-specific dysregulation , both underpin the pathophysiology of this common triplet-repeat mediated disease , with potential downstream functional consequences .
Rice ( Oryza sativa ) is a staple crop in the world , and it is cultivated in cold climates to circumvent the labor-intensive process of transplantation . Direct seeding is employed to circumvene the labor intensive process of rice transplantation but this approach requires varieties with vigorous low-temperature germination ( LTG ) when sown in cold regions . To investigate the genetic basis of LTG we identified the quantitative trait locus ( QTL ) qLTG11 from rice variety Arroz da Terra , which shows rapid seed germination at lower temperatures . Analysis of numerous Japanese rice accessions revealed that the functional GF14h allele was lost from popular varieties during modern breeding . We generated a NIL in the Hitomebore background carrying a 172-kb genomic fragment from Arrozda Terra including GF-14h . The NIL showed superior LTG at lower temperature compared to Hitomebure , with otherwise comparable agronomic traits . Knocking out the functional allele in a near-isogenic line ( NIL ) carrying the ArrozDaTerra allele decreased LTG and overexpressing functional LF14h in HitomedaTera increased LTG in the NIL with otherwise similar agranomic characteristics . Our results suggest that reintroduction of beneficial alleles such as GF 14hArroz that were lost during modern farming into future rice varieties will enable the implementation of new cultivation techniques such as direct seeding .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) relax circular DNA ( rcDNA ) possesses an 8-9 nucleotide-long terminal redundancy ( TR , or r ) on the negative ( - ) line DNA derived from the reverse transcription of viral pregenomic RNA ( pgRNA ) in the reverse transcriptome . It remains unclear whether the TR forms a 5' or 3' flap structure on HBV and which TR copy is removed during covalently closed circular DNA formation . In a survey of known cellular flap endonucleases using a loss-of-function study , we found that the 3 ' flap endorse Mus81 plays a critical role in cccDNA formation in wild-type HBV replicating cells , alongside the 5 ' cleavage site FEN1 . Next-generation sequencing ( NGS ) analysis revealed that the positive ( + ) and both strands of rCDNA predominantly carried the wt nt1822 residue , indicating that the 5' TR of ( – )
The efficiency of microbial fuel cells ( MFCs ) in industrial wastewater treatment is profoundly influenced by the bacterial community , which can be disrupted by variable industrial operations . However , comprehensive knowledge of the convergent community structure and pathways of adaptation is lacking . Here , we developed a microbe-microbe interaction genome-scale metabolic model ( mmGEM ) based on metabolic cross-feeding to study the adaptation of bacterial communities in MFC treating sulfide-containing wastewater from a canned-pineapple factory . The metabolic model encompassed three major bacterial guilds: sulphate-reducing bacteria ( SRB ) and methanogens ( MET ); sludge-oxidizing bacteria ( SOB )—which are able to grow under elevated acidity levels . We observed a shift from an SOB-dominant community at low OLRs ( L-OLRs ), to a MET-dominate community at high OLR conditions . Our findings revealed constraints on SOB growth under H-OLRs due to reduced sufate-sulfuride cycling and acetate cross-fed metabolites from SRB were diverted to MET—facilitating their competitive dominance . These interactions collectively led to changes in the composition and structure of the community within the MFC system , culminating in a decline in performance .
Machine learning ( ML ) is increasingly being used to guide biological discovery in biomedicine such as prioritizing promising small molecules in drug discovery . However , when applied to unseen situations , these models can be overconfident and produce a large number of false positives . One solution to address this issue is to quantify the model's prediction uncertainty and provide a set of hypotheses with a controlled false discovery rate ( FDR ) pre-specified by researchers . We propose CPEC , an ML framework for FDR-controlled biological discovery , which integrates a deep learning model with  a statistical tool known as conformal prediction , providing accurate and FDR–controlled function predictions for a given protein enzyme . Evaluation experiments show that it achieves reliable FDR control , better or comparable prediction performance at a lower FDR than existing methods , and accurate predictions for enzymes under-represented in the training data . Conformal prediction provides rigorous statistical guarantees to the predictive model and ensures that the expected FDR will not exceed a user-specific level with high probability .
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is the most common neurodegenerative disease in humans , and is caused by mutations in the gene coding for TDP-43 . Mutations in the TARDBP gene can cause some cases of familial inherited ALS ( fALS ) , indicating dysfunction of TDP–43 drives disease . In this study , we show that loss of function of the heat shock responsive chaperone Hsp90 protects against TDP+43 neurotoxicity and subsequent neurodegeneration in adult animals . We also find that hsp-90 mutation or inhibition upregulates key stress responsive heat shock pathway gene expression in C . elegans , which may contribute to the neuroprotective effect . Our data demonstrate for the first time that HSP-90 chaperon activity contributes to adverse outcomes in TDP/43 proteinopathies in vivo using a whole animal model of ALS .
We use single-nucleus RNA and ATAC sequencing to produce a comprehensive single nucleus atlas of the adult Artemia franciscana female reproductive system . We identify the major cell types known to be present in the Artemia ovary , including germ cells , follicle cells ) , and ovarian muscle cells . Additionally , we use the germ cells to explore gene regulation and expression of the Z chromosome during meiosis highlighting its unique regulatory dynamics and allowing us to explore the presence of meiotic sex chromosome silencing in this group .
Chronic pain is a common symptom of chronic pain that is debilitating and expensive to manage , costing the United States alone around $ 600 billion in 2010 . In this work , we analyze biophysically-motivated subcircuit structures that represent common motifs in neural circuits in laminae I-II of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord . These circuits are hypothesized to be part of the neural pathways that mediate two different types of allodynia: static and dynamic . We find that disruption of E-I balance generally occurs either due to downregulation of inhibitory signaling so that excitatory neurons are “released” from inhibitory control , or due to upregulation of excitator neuron responses so that excitatory neurons “escaped” their inhibitory controls . Which of these mechanisms is most likely to occur , the subcircipcuit components involved in the mechanism , and the proportion of subcirculations exhibiting the mechanism can vary depending on the subcirccuit structure . Our results suggest specific hypotheses about diverse mechanisms that may be most likely responsible for allodynoia , thus offering predictions for the high interindividual variability observed in allodynosis and identifying targets for further experimental studies on the underlying mechanisms of this chronic pain symptom .
Eukaryotic elongation factor 2 ( eEF2 ) is a protein that promotes GTP-dependent translocation of the ribosome during translation . Yeast expressing different groups of Hsp90 mutations or a different cochaperone mutation had altered sensitivity to diphtheria toxin , which is dictated by a unique posttranslational modification on eF2 . In contrast , yeast expressing a group of Hgh1 mutations that mimic disease-associated mutations in human eFE2 had altered growth of one mutant was also negatively affected by loss of Hgg1 . Our results provide further evidence that Hspinase ef2 contributes to proteostasis not just by assisting protein folding , but also by enabling accurate translation of newly synthesized proteins .
When making risky decisions , humans typically combine social information with individual preferences about the options at stake . In this study , we examined participants with lesions in the insular or dorsal anterior cingulate cortex , key regions implicated in risky decision-making , as they played a gambling task where choices were made both alone and after observing others’ choices . Participants in both lesion groups showed disrupted use of standard utility-based computations about risky options . For socially situated decisions ( i . e .
Biomorphs , Richard Dawkins’s iconic model of morphological evolution , are traditionally used to demonstrate the power of natural selection to generate biological order from random mutations . Many of these patterns can be explained with an analytic model based on constrained and unconstrained sections of the genome . We show that biomorphs exhibit phenotype bias , a type of developmental bias where certain phenotic variation can be many orders of magnitude more likely than others to appear through random mutation . This bias exhibits a strong preference for simpler phenology with low descriptional complexity . By using population genetics simulations we demonstrate how moderately adaptive variation that appears more frequently upon random mutation can fix at the expense of more highly adaptive biomorph phenitypes that are less frequent . In particular , we find that the biomorph's structure of variation is strongly biased towards simplicity . Our results suggest that the phenobiology bias towards simplicity and other patterns found in the structure of variability may hold more broadly for developmental systems .
The human sensitivity to resonance has been experimentally supported for interactions with simple linear systems but remains a challenge to validate in more complex scenarios where nonlinear dynamics can not be predicted analytically . In this study , we used a recently developed numerical mode tool to compare the motions that humans excite in nonlineal systems with the predicted NNM of the energy-conservative systems . We found that the human ability to intuitively tune to system dynamics and excite periodic motions in dynamic object interactions , including possibly shaping the dynamics through changes in muscle stiffness . Our findings emphasize the human capabilities to apply control strategies to excite and exploit resonant motions , especially during the excitation of periodic movements .
In the soil bacterium Bacillus subtilis , transcriptional regulation is a fundamental process that allows bacteria to respond to external stimuli with appropriate timing and magnitude of response . The regulation of gene expression in cells transitioning from exponential phase to stationary phase is under the control of a group of transcription factors called transition state regulators ( TSRs ) . In this study , we demonstrate that two TSR , ScoC and AbrB , along with the MarR-family transcription factor PchR negatively regulate production of the iron chelator pulcherrimin in B . subtilis by controlling the rate and total amount of the peptide produced by each background . Genetic analysis of the relationship between the three transcription factors indicate that all are necessary to limit pulcerrimin production during exponential phase and influence the rate or total amount produced by both backgrounds . Lastly , our in vitro data indicate a weak direct role for ScoC in controlling the pulmonary peptidoglycan biosynthesis gene yvmC . Our results suggest that the layered regulation by two distinct regulatory systems underscores the important role for pul Cherrimin .
In patients with spinal cord injuries ( SCIs ) , patients may develop either detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia ( DSD ) or urinary incontinence , depending on the level of the spinal injury . Neuroplasticity and increased complexity of interactions among lumbar interneurons , beyond what is necessary to simulate normal bladder function , must be present in order to replicate the effects of SCI on control of micturition . We created a computational model of the neural circuit of microturition that replicated normal bladder activity . The model replicated the re-emergence of a spinal voiding reflex after SCI , and we increased the density and complexity of interaction of both inhibitory and excitatory limbar spinal interneurion responsive to TMS to provide a more diverse set of spinal responses to intrinsic and extrinsic activation of spinal interneuron that remains after SCU . Our model reproduced the improved coordination between the detrusion muscle and external urethral spicules , which control the bladder outlet to restrict or permit bladder emptying . These findings highlight the importance of an integrated , systems-level modeling approach to understand the neuronal basis of adverse effects of spinal cord injury so that rehabilitation and neuromodulation may be used to alleviate the neurological disorders following SCI as a therapeutic intervention .
The ability to quantify fungal growth is a key component of our ability to effectively treat severe fungal infections . However , it is not possible to accurately estimate fungal development rates from time-course morphology-specific data , such as hyphal length data . In this paper , we propose a mathematical model to estimate morphological-specific growth rates from easy-to-collect , but indirect , optical density ( OD600 ) data of Aspergillus fumigatus growth ( filamentous fungus ) . Our method accounts for OD 600 being an indirect measure by explicitly including the relationship between the indirect measurements and the calibrating true fungal grow in the model . We found that our model outperformed reference models at fitting to and predicting OD6000 growth curves and overcame observed discrepancies between morphologie-specific rates inferred from OD60 versus directly measured data in reference models that did not include calibration .
Beetles are the most species-rich group of animals and harbor diverse karyotypes . Most species have XY sex chromosomes , but X0 sexe determination mechanisms are also common in some groups . We generated a whole-chromosomal assembly of Tribolium confusum , which has a neo-sex genome , and utilize eleven additional beetle genomes to reconstruct kryotype evolution across Coleoptera . These nels evolve the stereotypical properties of sx chromogenesis , including the evolution of dosage compensation and a non-random distribution of genes with sex-biased expression . While the ancestral X is conserved in Coleopteral , we find independent additions of autosomes to the ancestral DNA . Our findings suggest that beetes will be a valuable model system to gain a better understanding of the diverse forces driving sext chromusome evolution , as well as evolutionary forces operating on sest chromas .
Chromatin structure and DNA accessibility are partly modulated by the incorporation of histone variants . Z , encoded by the non-essential HTZ1 gene in S . cerevisiae , is an evolutionarily conserved H2A histone variation that is predominantly incorporated at transcription start sites by the SWR1-complex ( SWR1/C ) . We found that Z incorporation before and after exposure to hydroxyurea ( HU ) induces DNA replication stress , a more substantive role for H2 A . The htz1 mutant exhibits minimal changes in gene expression compared to wild-type , and its incorporation was important for proper upregulation of several HU-induced genes . However , given that growth defects of hetz2 mutants are alleviated by simultaneous deletion of SWR1/2 subunits , previous work examining the role of H2B .
Single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNASeq ) is a widely used method for analyzing single-cell transcriptome data . However , it is difficult to classify single-celled transcriptomes by hand . To overcome this challenge , automated classification methods are needed . We study and extend when needed state-of-the-art multi-class classification methods , such as SVM , kNN , prototype-based , logistic regression and ensemble methods . Our results show that these methods rely on a much less stringent type of annotated datasets compared to fully supervised learning methods and perform predictions with high accuracy , particularly with a nonlinear prototyp-based method . Overall our findings show how hierarchical and non-hierarchical partial label learning strategies can help solve the problem of automated classification of single- cell transcriptomic profiles .
Phosphatidylinositol 4 , 5-bisphosphate ( PIP2 ) is found in nuclear speckles , nucleoli , and nuclear lipid islets and is involved in RNA polymerase I/II transcription . The RNA content is crucial for the formation of nuclear compartments . In this study , we unveiled the RNA-dependent PIP2-associated ( RDPA ) nuclear proteome in human cells by mass spectrometry . We found that intrinsically disordered regions ( IDRs ) with polybasic PIP2/binding K/R motifs are prevalent features of RD PA proteins . Moreover , these IDR patterns of RBPA proteins exhibit enrichment for phosphorylation , acetylation , or ubiquitination sites . Our results show for the first time that the RDEPA protein Bromodomain-containing protein 4 ( BRD4 ) associates with PIP 2 in the RF-dependent manner via electrostatic interactions , suggesting the pivotal role of PIP1 in the establishment of a functional nuclear architecture competent for gene expression .
Insects , such as the Scarabaeinae , are a species-rich clade of insects recognized for their highly diversified nutrition-responsive development including that of cephalic horns-evolutionarily novel , secondary sexual weapons that exhibit remarkable intra- and interspecific variation . Phenotypic plasticity is thought to be an important driver of diversification and adaptation to environmental variation , yet the genomic mechanisms mediating plastic trait development and evolution remain poorly understood . Here , we present chromosome-level genome assemblies of three dung beetle species in the tribe Onthophagini . We then compare chromatin accessibility in developing head horn tissues of high- and low-nutrition O . taurus males and females and identify distinct cis-regulatory architectures underlying nutrition-versus sex-responsive developmental , including a large proportion of recently evolved regulatory elements sensitive to horn morph determination . Comparing these assemblies to those of seven other species across the order Coleoptera identifies evolutionary changes in coding sequence associated with metabolic regulation of plasticity and metamorphosis , and provides new reference-quality genomes for three species that will bolster future development , ecological , or evolutionary studies of this insect group .
Lassa fever , a neglected tropical disease , is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide . The pathogenesis of the disease has not yet been fully deciphered , particularly as concerns the mechanisms determining whether acute infection is controlled or leads to catastrophic illness and death . In this study we used a cynomolgus monkey model of LASV infection reproducing the different outcomes of the diseases . We found that LASV enters through the cortical sinus of draining lymph nodes regardless of disease outcome . By contrast , subsequent viral tropism varies considerably with disease severity , with viral dissemination limited almost exclusively to lymphoid organs and immune cells during nonfatal Lassan fever . These results provide new insight into early viral dynamics and the host response to LASV in a mouse model in which infection with AV LASV leads to non-lethal disease whereas infection with Josiah LASV results in death , suggesting that events that take place in SLOs early during the course of infection may determine the later different host responses and the outcome of Lassal fever 
Neurodegenerative diseases , such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) and frontal temporal lobar degeneration ( FTDFTLD ) , have been implicated in a number of cellular and biochemical aspects of neurodegenerative disease . However , the question of whether these alterations represent a primary cause , or a downstream consequence of disease is unclear , and what upstream factors may account for these defects are unknown . Here , we report four key findings that shed light on the upstream causal role of Importin--specific nuclear import defects in disease onset . First , taking advantage of two novel mouse models of NEMF neurodegeneration ( NemfR86S and NemFR487G ) that recapitulate many cellular , biochemical , cellular aspects of ALS and ALS/FTD , We find an Importi- specific nuclear import block . Second , by transient pharmaceutical inhibition of importin-1 in both mouse and human neuronal and non-neuronal cells induces key proteinopathies and transcriptional alterations seen in our mouse models and in neurodegradation . These findings have critical implications for investigating how sporadic forms of neurological disease may arise from presently unidentified genetic and environmental perturbations in Importing- function .
Lytic bacteriophages are a major threat to human health , causing a wide range of diseases . However , they can resist Cas-mediated cleavage through extensive DNA modifications like cytosine glycosylation , hindering mutagenesis efficiency . In this study , we use the eukaryotic enzyme NgTET to temporarily reduce the abundance of phage DNA modifications . This approach enables precise DNA targeting and seamless point mutation integration . Furthermore , by temporally removing DNA modifications we elucidated the effects of these modifications on T4 T4 infections without necessitating gene deletions . Our results present a strategy enabling the investigation of bacterial epigenome functions and streamlining the engineering of phospheric viruses . Taken together , this field represents an intriguing subject for future research , providing the opportunity to gain profound insights into the ongoing arms race between bacteria and bacterial pathogens 
The genome of living cells is constantly challenged by DNA lesions that interfere with cellular processes such as transcription and replication . Bulky DNA lesion , such as those induced by UV light or the DNA-damaging agent 4-nitroquinoline oxide , act as transcriptional and replication roadblocks and thus represent a major threat to cell metabolism . A manifold of mechanisms act in concert to ensure adequate DNA repair , gene expression , and genome stability . Here , using a genetic screen in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae , we identified histone variant H2A . Z as an important component to safeguard transcription and DNA integrity following UV irradiation . In the absence of this histone variation , repair by transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair ( TC-NER ) is severely impaired and RNA polymerase II clearance reduced , leading to an increase in double-strand breaks . We found that Z , incorporation in the vicinity of RNAPII stalled at transcribed genes , promotes efficient repair by establishing a repair-favorable chromatin environment and , thus , preventing the accumulation
The pervasiveness of gene expression variation and its contribution to phenotypic variation and evolution is well known . However , little is known about how this genetic variation affects the evolution of regulatory architecture among closely related tissues during population divergence . To address this question , we analyzed gene expression in the midgut , hindgut and Malpighian tubule as well as microbiome composition in the two gut tissues in four Drosophila melanogaster strains and their F1 hybrids from two divergent populations: one from the derived , European range and one from that from the ancestral , African range . We found extensive tissue- and genetic background-specific effects , including effects of genetic background on overall tissue specificity . Tissue-specific effect was typically stronger than genetic background , although the two intestinal tissues were not more similar to each other than to the Malpigarian tubuleles . Despite there being highly variable regulatory architecture , this observation was robust across tissues and genetic backgrounds , suggesting that the expression of trans variation can be spatially fine-tuned as well or better than cis variation .
In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic , previous studies have estimated dates of emergence ( e . g . first human SARS-CoV-2 infection , emergence of the Alpha SARS–CoV2 variant ) using mainly genomic data . While the first infection of an emerging disease is often unknown , information on early cases can be used to date it . Here , we extend this approach to use a larger set of early reported cases to estimate the delay from first infection to the Nth case . We date the first Alpha infection in Wuhan at ( median ) November 28 , 2019 , and date the initial SARS covid-19 infection around November 28 ( 95% IPR: Nov 2-Dec 9 ) , 2020 . Our results fall within ranges previously estimated by studies relying on genome data , which may not reflect early epidemic dynamics , where very early cases may remain undetected before detecting the first cases .
During meiosis , homologous chromosomes ( homologs ) ensure the formation of haploid gametes from diploid precursor cells , a prerequisite for sexual reproduction . Pairing during meiotic prophase I facilitates crossover recombination and homolog segregation during the ensuing reductional cell division . The mechanism of homolog pairing has remained elusive , but rapid chromosome movements appear to play a role in the process . We have developed an agent-based mathematical model for homolog pair derived from the dynamics of a naturally occurring chromatosome ensemble . Incorporating natural chromusome lengths , the model accurately recapitulates efficiency and kinetics of homology pairing observed for wild-type and mutant meiochromes in budding yeast , and can be adapted to nuclear dimensions and chrome sets of other organisms .
Li-Fraumeni syndrome is caused by inherited TP53 tumor suppressor gene mutations . In this study , we characterized DNA damage-induced transcription and at 8 , 28 and 72 hpf we determined potential miR-34a-regulated genes . Overexpression of miR-334a suppressed its reporter mRNA , but not p53 target induction , and sensitized injected embryos to camptothecin but not to -irradiation . Interestingly , miR-434a mutants with a gain-of-function tp53R217H/R2117H or tpm53-/- mutants were more cancer-prone than tmp53 mutants alone , confirming the tumor-suppressive function of miRNA-34 .
Sex determination in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is controlled by the master regulator XOL-1 during embryogenesis . In males , Xol-1 is highly expressed and in hermaphrodites XO is expressed at very low levels . Further analyses reveal that Xal-1 is responsible for regulating the timing of initiation of dosage compensation on the X chromosomes and the appropriate expression of sex-biased transcriptional programs . These findings demonstrate that xal-1 plays an important role as a developmental regulator in both sexes .
Genetic surveillance is becoming increasingly relevant as genetics-based mosquito control strategies advance from laboratory to field testing . Especially applicable are mosquito gene drive projects , the potential scale of which leads monitoring to be a significant cost driver . To this end , we present MGSurvE ( Mosquito Gene SurveillancE ): a computational framework that optimizes trap placement for genetic surveillance of mosquito populations such that the time to detection of an allele of interest is minimized . This entails the need to distribute mosquito traps efficiently such that an alle of interest was detected as quickly as possible-ideally when remediation is still viable . Furthermore , insecticide-based tools such as bednets are compromised by insecticide resistance alleles for which there is also a need to detect as rapidly as possible .
Symbiomonas scintillans is a small ( 1 . 4 m ) heterotrophic microbial eukaryote . The genus was named based on the presence of endosymbiotic bacteria in its endoplasmic reticulum , however , unlike most such endo-symbionts neither the identity nor functional association with its host were known . In this study , we generated both amplification-free shotgun metagenomics and whole genome sequencing data from S . scinTillans strains RCC257 and RCC24 , but were unable to detect any sequences from known lineages of prasinoviruses . We assembled a near-complete 190 kbp draft genome encoding all hallmark genes , as well as two additional incomplete assemblies of closely related but distinct viruses from RCC27 , and three similar draft viral genomes from the same strain , collectively called SsVs , which we collectively call SsSsV . Interestingly , transmission electron microscopy also revealed a virus-like particle similar the morphology and size of the endosomal recombinant , or virophage-like elements ( VLEs ) , respectively . Overall , our results suggest that S 
The leiomodin ( Lmod ) family of actin-binding proteins play a critical role in muscle function , highlighted by the fact that mutations in all three family members ( LMOD1-3 ) result in human myopathies . However , in nearly all cases of disease , little to no Lmod protein is expressed . Here we show here that nonsense-mediated mRNA decay , a cellular mechanism which eliminates RNAs with premature termination codons , underlies loss of mutant protein from two independent LMORD2 disease-causing mutations and generate steric-blocking oligonucleotides that obstruct deposition of the exon junction complex . Furthermore , we generated STERIC-BLOCKING OLONGUTIDES that block deposition and thereby prevent nonsense–mediated rRNA decay of mutant transcripts thereby restoring mutant protein expression .
Apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) polymorphisms modify the risk of Alzheimer's disease with Apoe4 strongly increasing and ApoO2 modestly decreasing risk relative to the control ApoOE3 . We identified 4849 proteins and tested for ApoI isoform-dependent changes in the homeostasis of 2700 ontologies . In the brain , we found that ApoA4 and AppoE2 both lead to altered regulation of mitochondrial membrane proteins relative to wild-type control AporE3 , suggesting that dysregulation of proteasome and autophagy is reducing protein quality . Our findings underscore the utility of combining protein abundance and turnover rate to decipher proteome regulatory mechanisms and their potential role in biology .
To characterize gene functions during development , we present a CRISPR-mediated tissue-restricted mutagenesis toolkit for knocking out genes in motoneurons , muscles , and glial cells . We validated the efficacy of CRIS PR-TRiM by knocking multiple genes in each tissue , demonstrated its orthogonal use with the Gal4/UAS binary expression system , showed simultaneous knockout of multiple redundant genes . Finally , our results demonstrate that the canonical ESCRT pathway suppresses NMJ bouton growth by downregulating retrograde Gbb signaling . Thus , this approach has the potential to reveal genes important for neuromuscular junction ( NMJ ) maintenance .
The lymph gland is a major organ of the human body , containing the blood-forming organ/lymph gland of the larvae . During larval stages , the lymph gland progenitors gradually accumulate reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , which is essential to prime them for differentiation . However , ROS triggers the activation of JNK ( c-Jun Kinase ) to upregulate fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) in the progenitor pool . In this study , we show that the Drosophila NF-B transcription factor Relish ( Rel ) shields the progenic pool from the metabolic pathway that inducts them into the differentiation program by curtailing the activating of JK . Our study sheds light on how , during development , integration of NF–B-like factors with metabolic pathways seem crucial to regulating cell fate transition during development and hematopoiesis .
Taybi-Linder syndrome ( TALS ) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe microcephaly with abnormal gyral pattern , severe growth retardation and bone abnormalities . Its transcript , the small nuclear RNA U4atac , is involved in the excision of 850 minor introns . RNU4ATAC is mutated , but no pathogenic variants were found in the gene , instead the homozygous RTTN c . 2953A > G variant was detected by whole-exome sequencing . Altogether , these defects contributed to a marked delay of rosette formation in engineered RPE1 cells and patient fibroblasts and revealed major cell cycle and mitotic abnormalities leading to aneuploidy , cell cycle arrest and cell death . In cortical organoids , we discovered an additional function of RTTEN in the self-organisation of neural stem cells into neural rosettes , by observing delayed apico-basal polarization of neural progenitors .
Adaptation is a dynamic process in which a population of bacterial species is able to survive prolonged periods of resource exhaustion . In July 2015 , we initiated a set of evolutionary experiments aimed at characterizing the dynamics of E . coli adaptation under long-term stationary phase ( LTSP ) . We show that E , a non-sporulating bacterium , continuously adapts genetically , up to six years under resource exhaustiton , through the highly convergent accumulation of mutations . This lineage structure is in itself convergend , with similar lineages arising across independently evolving populations . By using whole genome sequencing data obtained for hundreds of clones sampled at 12 time points spanning the first six years of these experiments , our results reveal several novel aspects of the dynamic of adaptation . The high parallelism with which adaptations occur under LT SP , combined with the lineage shape of our populations , enable us to screen for pairs of loci displaying a significant association in the occurrence of mutation , suggesting a historical contingency .
The male-specific abdominal ( MSA ) RNA from the Drosophila melanogaster bithorax complex has recently been shown to code for a micropeptide that plays a vital role in determining how mated females use stored sperm after mating . Although originally classified as a non-coding RNA , the male-species abdominal ( MSA ) transcript is a male- specific version of another transcript produced in both sexes within the posterior central nervous system . Through cell culture and transgenic analysis , we show that this mechanism relies on the presence of upstream open reading frames present in these two exons that prevent the production of proteins from downstream open reading frame . However , while the MSA transcript produces a small peptide , it seems that the iab-8 transcript does not . Here , our study shows that the absence of ib-8 translation is due to a repressive mechanism requiring the two unique 5’ exon sequences of the lncRNA . We also show that the two distinct 5’ codons in the uORFs in this transcript are required to prevent the formation of proteins .
Glycosylation is a post-translational modification of proteins , and it is evolutionarily conserved from yeast to mammals . Mutations in glycosylation pathways , such as N-linked glycositylation , O-linked carboxylic acid ( OCG ) , or GPI anchor synthesis , lead to Congenital Disorders of Glicosylation ( CDG ) that are associated with seizures , hypotonia , developmental delay . Because of the similar physiology and clinical symptoms , there are likely common genetic modifiers between CDG patients . Here , we use evolution as a tool to identify proteins with similar evolutionary rates that indicate shared biological functions and pathways . Genome-wide analysis of proteins showing significant evolutionary rate signatures with GPI Anchor synthesis proteins revealed strong signatures of ncRNA modification proteins and DNA repair proteins . Functional testing of the highest scoring candidates validated genetic interactions and identified novel genetic modifier genes of CDG genes . This variability suggests that modifier genes might influence the phenotypes . We also identified strong patterns of ERC based on cellular sub-localization of the GPI hook synthesis enzymes , which could explain why the cytoplasmic side of the ER has fewer high ERC scores than proteins acting on the luminal side . These findings could lead to novel therapeutic targets for CDG and may be broadly applied to multiple types of CDGS .
The HBV core ( HBc ) protein contains a N-terminal domain ( NTD ) for capsid assembly and an arginine-rich C-terminal domain ( CTD) for pregenomic RNA ( pgRNA ) encapsidation . As capsidas mature , the HBC CTD undergoes dephosphorylation , suggesting the involvement of a phosphatase in the late stage of enCAPSIDation and appears to be associated with late endosomes/multivesicular bodies ( MVB )s . Using a C-S170 antibody , we observed a transition from phosphorylated to a dephosphoryated state during pGRNA encapsulation ; this recruitment does not require HB but does require Pol via epsilon RNA signal , which suggests that the Pol-pgDNA complex plays a key role in PP1 recruitment . These findings not only decipher the mechanism by which Pol–mediated dephospholysis of HBic regulates p GRNA synthesis , but also reveal the possibility of PP-1 as a potential target for antiviral development .
The closure of the Isthmus of Panama created distinct environmental conditions in the Tropical Eastern Pacific ( TEP ) and Caribbean , offering a “natural experiment” for studying how closely related animals evolve and adapt under environmental change . Bacterial symbionts , with their shorter generation times and capacity for horizontal gene transfer ( HGT ) , play a critical role in allowing marine organisms to cope with environmental change and their metabolic capabilities . However , the role of bacteriophages in this process is often overlooked . We sequenced the genomes of endosymbiotic bacteria in two sets of sister species of chemosymicrobial bivalves from the genera Codakia and Ctena ( family Lucinidae ) collected on either side of the island of Panama , to investigate how divergent environmental conditions have influenced the selection of bacterial species and their metabolism capacities . Reconstructing the evolutionary history of the nifHDKT operon by including other lucinid sYmbiont genomes from around the world further revealed that the last common ancestor ( LCA ) of Ca . Thiodiazotropha lacked nIF genes , and populations in oligotrophic habitats later re-acquired the nigra nf HDKT . This nitrogen-fixing ability did not correspond to szymbiont phylogeny , suggesting convergent evolution of nitrogen fixation potential under nutrient-poor conditions .
TAS2Rs are a family of G protein-coupled receptors that function as bitter taste receptors in vertebrate lineages . In most species , TAS2-R genes are found in clusters; compared to other vertebrates , amphibians have additional clusters and more genes per cluster . However , the evolution and functional implications of TAS-2Rs in other lineages remain less explored . Here , we find that frogs and salamanders contain unusually high TAS1R gene content , in stark contrast to other animals . We find that vertebrate TAS3Rs have few one-to-one orthologs between closely related species . Our analysis of gene clusters revealed that many amphibian TAS4Rs function as tissue-specific chemosensors to detect ecologically important xenobiotics .
The Notch dimerization-deficient alleles ( NDD ) of Notch1 and Notch2 are sensitized to environmental insults but otherwise develop and age normally . To ask if HDAC2 activity contributes to Notch loss-of-function phenotypes , we used the HDAC inhibitor Valproic acid ( VPA ) and discovered it could prevent the intestinal consequences of NDD and gamma secretase inhibitors ( DBZ or DAPT ) treatment in mice and spheroids , suggesting synergy between HDAC activity and pro-differentiation program in intestinal stem cells . Transcriptomic analysis of colonic sppheroids revealed no evidence of dimer-dependent target gene miss-regulation , confirmed impaired stem cell maintenance in-vitro , and discovered an elevated signature of epithelial innate immune response to symbionts . In contrast to the benefits of HDAC inhibition alone , deletion of both Notch 1 and 2 in mice seems to enhance sensitivity to induced colitis and disrupts epithelium barrier function , a likely underlying cause for heightened sensitivity in NDD mice .
Background selection , by which selection on deleterious alleles reduces diversity at linked neutral sites , influences patterns of total neutral diversity , T , and genetic differentiation , FST , in structured populations . Previous work has quantified the effects of background selection on  T and FST only for deletions in the background selection regime . However , we show that background selection may still cause substantial reductions in FST under sufficiently high migration rates , because migration reduces correlated effects on fitness over generations within subpopulations . Furthermore , there is evidence to suggest that background selective interference reduces the effects , but this has not been fully explained . We have extended previous theory from the interference selection regime to make predictions in an island model . Our work further extends the theory into structured populations and suggests that background selectivity will minimally confound locus-to-locus FST scans , which is a common feature of large population dynamics .
Increasing genetic and phenotypic data size is critical for understanding the genetic determinants of diseases . As the sample sizes become more heterogeneous , complex statistical approaches , such as generalized linear mixed effects models , must be used to correct for the confounders that may bias results . On the other front , due to the privacy concerns around Protected Health Information ( PHI ) , genetic information is restrictively protected by sharing according to regulations such as Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ( HIPAA ) ( a federated statistical method ) with practical resource requirements . In this study , we developed FedGMMAT , an efficient genetic association testing tool that utilizes a common statistical testing approach for efficient association tests that can correct for confounding fixed and additive polygenic random effects among different collaborating sites . We demonstrate that FedGMMT can achieve the virtually same results as pooled analysis under a privacy-preserving framework with practical resources requirements , which limits data sharing among institutions and hampers efforts around executing high-powered collaborative studies .
Prostate cancer is a heritable disease with ancestry-biased incidence and mortality . Recent algorithmic developments for polygenic risk scores ( PRSs ) have resulted in improved pan-ancestral risk prediction for several diseases . While their accuracy continues to improve , research aimed at enhancing their effectiveness within African and Asian populations remains key for equitable use . In this study , we benchmark the predictive power of six widely used PRS derivation algorithms against prostate cancer cases and controls from the UK Biobank and All of Us cohorts . We find modest improvement in discriminatory ability when compared with a simple method that prioritizes variants , clumping , and published polygenic risks scores . Our findings underscore the need for additional algorithms to predict risk across populations as well as the sampling of diverse cohorts
DPAGT1-CDG is a congenital disorder of glycosylation ( CDG ) that lacks effective therapies . We used a Drosophila rough eye model to identify drugs that improved its eye phenotype . This model was modified by pharmacological and genetic inhibition of the dopamine D2 receptor . Loss of both dopeamine synthesis and recycling partially rescued the model . Notably , loss of both acetylcholine ( DA ) synthesis , histamine receptors , NKCC1/2 , and cyclooxygenase ( NKCA ) inhibition partially resurrected the model under DA deficiency . These drugs and subsequent analyses reveal novel biology in DPA GT1 mechanisms and represent new therapeutic options for treating D PAGT1–CDG .
Proprioception is one of the least understood senses , yet fundamental for the control of movement . The brain encodes a large number of neuronal preferential directions ( PDs ) across the cortex . Few neurons will encode just a single joint . We developed a topographic variational autoencoder with lateral connectivity ( topo-VAE ) to compute a putative cortical map from natural movement data . Although not fitted to neural data , our model reproduces two sets of observations from monkey centre-out reaching: 1 . 2 . 3 . Our model provides a principled basis for understanding of sensorimotor representations and the theoretical basis of neural manifolds with applications to the restoration of sensory feedback in brain-computer interfaces .
Plant-microbe interactions have been explored from the perspective of plants . Ethylene is a plant hormone involved in many aspects of plant growth and development as well as responses to stress . However , only a small number of studies have examined the role of ethylene in microbes . Here we demonstrate that Azospirillum brasilense contains a functional ethylene receptor that we call AzoSpirillium Earthylene Response1 ( AzoEtr1 ) after the nomenclature used in plants , and we show that ethylene causes wide-spread metabolic changes that affect carbon and nitrogen metabolism . Treatment with ethylene or disrupting the receptor reduces biofilm formation and colonization of plant root surfaces . Our data suggest a model in which ethylene from host plants alters the density of colonization by A . brasileense and re-wires its metabolism , suggesting that the bacterium implements an adaptation program upon sensing ethylene .
The INO80 protein is the main catalytic subunit of the INO-chromatin remodeling complex , which is critical for DNA repair and transcription regulation in murine spermatocytes . In this study , we explored the role of INO 80 in silencing genes on meiotic sex chromosomes in male mice . INO8 immunolocalization at the XY body in pachytene spermocytes suggested a role for INO88 in the meiosex body . Subsequent deletion of Ino80 resulted in high expression of sexe-linked genes . This role of InO80 is independent of a common INO40 target , H2A . Z . . We also validated this overall aberrant sx-linked transcription program in individual Ino 80cKO pachytente  Spermatocyte cells by immunolocalizing active RNA polymerase II at the promoter-proximal regions . These data suggest a central regulator of sex-linked gene selencing by facilitating the recruitment of DNA repair factors required for siledging sext-linked Genes during the onset of pachynema .
SVH-1 is a dual-function factor that acts as an HGF-like growth factor to promote axon regeneration and as a protease to regulate early development . In this study , we demonstrate that the cytidine deaminases ( CDD ) SVHF-17/CDD-2 plays a role in the functional conversion of SVHA-1 . We find that the codon exchange of His-755 to Tyr in the Asp-His-Ser catalytic triad of svh-1 can suppress the ddd-2 defect in aXon regeneration . Furthermore , the stem hairpin structure around the His-7555 site in svah-1 mRNA is required for the activation of axiaon regeneration by SVHO-1 , a growth factor belonging to the HGF/plasminogen family . These results suggest that CDD-2 promotes a xon regeneration by transforming the function of SKH-1 from a protein to a grow factor through modification of its mDNA .
Zebrafish collective behaviour is widely used to assess their physical and mental state , serving as a valuable tool to assess the impact of ageing , disease genetics , and the effect of drugs . In a few cases , the system may be controlled at the level of the individual constituents such as the interactions between colloidal particles , or the enzymatic behaviour of de novo proteins . Here , we challenge this scenario in a biological context by genetically modifying zebrafish . We show that the collective behaviour of wildtype and col11a2 -/- zoonos are captured with a simple active matter model , in which the mutant fish are modelled by self-propelling agents with  a higher orientational noise on average . Surprisingly , a group of 25 mutant fish exhibited more orderly collective motion than the wildtype . This behavioural difference of a single fish affected the group behaviour of twenty five , where a mutant fish group exhibited less body-bending while swimming , hence a slower reorientation process .
Capillary plexus cultivation is crucial in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine . Theoretical simulations have been conducted to supplement the expensive experimental works . However , the mechanisms connecting mechanical and chemical stimuli remained undefined , and the functions of the different VEGF forms in the culture environment were still unclear . In this paper , we developed a hybrid model for simulating short-term static in vitro capillary incubation . We used the Cellular Potts model to predict individual cell migration , morphology change , continuum mechanics to quantify biogel deformation and VEG transport dynamics . By bridging the mechanical regulation and chemical stimulation in the model , our results showed good agreement between the predicted network topology and experiments , in which elongated cells connected forming the network cords and round cells gathered , creating cobblestone-like aggregates .
The transforming growth factor beta family consists of numerous secreted growth factors that play significant roles in cell function , tissue patterning , and organismal homeostasis , including wound repair and immunity . As in vertebrates , these ligands can be divided into bone morphogenetic protein ( BMP ) and TGF-/Activin subfamilies that predominantly signal through discrete signaling pathways . In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans , there are only five TGF– ligans , providing an opportunity to dissect ligan interactions in fewer combinations than in vertebrate . Here we show that all five TFF– proteins play a role in survival on bacterial pathogens . We also identify TIG-2 and TIG-3 as members of a rare subset of BMP-like ligants lacking the conserved cysteine responsible for disulfide linking mature dimers . Structural modeling supports the potential for BMP–TGF–Smad signal transducers to function in the immune response , while components of the DAF-7 TGF—/Aligin signaling pathway do not function a major role in this response . These results demonstrate a novel potential for the BMP and tgf- ligands to interact and may provide a mechanism for distinguishing the developmental and homeostatic functions of these liquors from an acute response such as the innate immune response to bacterial infection .
The DNA damage response ( DDR ) is a crucial cellular process that safeguards genome integrity . In this study , we show that the epigenetic modifier N-terminal acetyltransferase 4 ( Nat4 ) , known to aceticlate the alpha-amino group of serine 1 on histones H4 and H2A , is implicated in the response to DNA damage in S . cerevisiae . We demonstrate that yeast cells lacking Nat4 have an increased sensitivity to the DNA damage and accumulate more DNA breaks than wild-type cells . Moreover , NAT4 gene expression is elevated , and the enzyme is specifically recruited at double-strand breaks , critical for H2AS129ph deposition and Rad9 retention . Importantly , Mec1 kinases recruitment at double strand breaks is significantly impaired in nat4 cells , suggesting that Nat4 is involved in the DDR associating a new histone-modifying activity in regulating the checkpoint signaling cascade .
Many methods for reconstructing cancer phylogenies have been developed to reconstruct the evolutionary history of genetically heterogeneous subpopulations of cells from the same cancer . However , these methods become inaccurate when reconstructing phylogies with more than 30 mutations or , in some cases , fail to recover a tree altogether . Here , we introduce Orchard , a cancer reconstructed algorithm that is fast and accurate using up to 1000 mutations . Each factor in this approximate posterior corresponds to a conditional distribution for adding a new mutation into a partially built tree . We demonstrate that the large and accurate phylogy reconstructions by OrcharD are useful for identifying patterns of somatic mutations and genetic variations among distinct cancer cell subsets , and that they can be used to guide the inference of clones and clone trees . Our evaluations demonstrate that OrChard outperforms state-of-the-art probabilistic VAF-based clustering algorithms in reconstructing more plausible phylogues across 90 simulated cancers and 14 B-progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( B-ALLs ) .
Neoantigen immunogenicity prediction is a challenging problem in the development of personalised medicines . It is difficult to predict the reactivity of a given neoantigen , due to limited training datasets . In this work , we describe ImmugenX , a modular protein language modelling approach to immunogenicness prediction for CD8+ reactive epitopes , which achieves state-of-the-art performance on pMHC binding affinity and eluted ligand prediction and stability tasks . We found that the model outperforms all compared models in predicting p MHC binding ability and stability , with a 7 % increase in average precision compared to the next best model . The model is further analysed for interpretability which locates areas of weakness found across existing models and highlight possible biases in public datasets
The quality of meat is important to the consumer . In this study , we used the genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) and gene-based association analysis with whole-genome resequencing of 230 fast-growing white-feathered chickens to map genes related to meat lightness and redness to a 6 . We found that only the protein phosphatase 1 catalytic subunit gamma ( PPP1CC ) was associated with meat color , and the novel target gene and variant that can aid in the innovation of meat improvement technology were detected . Through transcriptome and targeted metabolome evidence we found that inhibition of PPP2CC decreased the expression of typical slow-twitch myofiber and myo fiber-type specification genes and enhanced the glycolysis pathway . The differences in meat color and related indices between fast- growing white-Feared chickens and local chickens support the conclusions above .
Inferring subunits from recorded ganglion cell activity promises a new avenue for studying the functional architecture of the retina . This calls for efficient methods , which leave sufficient experimental time to leverage the acquired knowledge for further investigating identified subunit . We introduce super-resolved tomographic reconstruction ( STR ) as a technique to efficiently stimulate and locate receptive field subunit layouts . It arises from the nonlinear transmission of signals that ganglon cells receive from bipolar cells , thereby constituting functional subunit in a gangle cell's recipient field . Simulations demonstrate that this approach can reliably identify subunit sets across a wide range of model variations , and application in recordings of primate parasol  Ganglion cells validates the experimental feasibility .
Identifying genes that interact with exposure to antibiotics can yield insights into drug targets and mechanisms of action or resistance . To capture this interaction , we propose a novel statistical method called CRISPRi-DR ( for Dose-Response model ) that incorporates both sgRNA efficiencies and drug concentrations in a modified dose-responses equation . This approach can be generalized to non-CGI datasets , which we show via an CRISPhieRmix dataset for E . coli growth on different carbon sources . The objective is to identify CRISRPi mutants whose relative abundance is suppressed ( or enriched ) in the presence of a drug when the target protein is depleted , reflecting synergistic behavior . We observe that the most efficient srRNAs are not always optimal for detecting synergies with drugs . However , for noisier data , some of these methods generate far more significant interactions , likely including many false positives . Our approach is competitive with the best of several related analytical methods .
Identifying communities in gene co-expression networks is a common first step toward extracting biological insight from these complex datasets . Here , we use a recently developed community detection method , the weighted degree corrected stochastic block model ( SBM ) , that does not assume that assortative modules exist . We find that ( a ) the SBM is able to find ten times as many groups as competing methods , ( b ) several of those gene groups are not modular , and ( c ) functional enrichment for non-modular groups is as strong as for modular blocks . These results show that the transcriptome is structured in more complex ways than traditionally thought and that we should revisit the long-standing assumption that modularity is the main driver of the structuring of gene co–expression networks .
Cytoplasmic poly ( A ) -binding protein ( PABPC ) is thought to be involved in multiple steps of post-transcriptional control , including translation initiation , translation termination , and mRNA decay . We have used mass spectrometry to assess the abundance of the components of the yeast proteome , as well as RNA-Seq and Ribo-Sex to analyze changes in the abundance and translation of the mutant yeast transcriptome in cells lacking the PAB1 gene . Cells devoid of Pab1 also manifest a nonsense codon readthrough phenotype indicative of a defect in transcription termination . Collectively , our results indicate that , unlike the loss of simpler regulatory proteins , elimination of cellular PABP is profoundly pleiotropic and disruptive to numerous aspects of post–transcriptionally regulation .
Neuronal bursts are a common feature of neuronal activity . They are accompanied by oscillations in the extracellular potassium concentration , which is mediated by the activity of the Na+/K+-ATPase . These burstants are typically generated from spiking , bursting , or depolarisation block . However , it is not clear whether these burstents arise from network-level mechanisms involving synaptic interactions and delays , such as intrinsically bursting neurons . Here , we explore an alternative mechanism generically available to all neurons with class I excitability . We use bifurcation analysis of the complete system as well as the slow-fast method to reveal that this coupling suffices to generate a hysteresis loop organized around a bistable region that emerges from a saddle-node loop bifurcuation structure . The identified minimal mechanistic model outlining the sodium-potassium pump's generic contribution to bursten dynamics can , therefore , contribute to a better understanding of pathologies such as epilepsy syndromes and , potentially , inform therapeutic strategies .
Recent research on multi-view clustering algorithms for complex disease subtyping often overlooks aspects like clustering stability and critical assessment of prognostic relevance . However , current frameworks do not allow for a comparison between data-driven and pathway-driven clustering , highlighting a significant gap in the methodology . We present the COPS R-package , tailored for robust evaluation of single and multi-omics clustering results . Our approach contrasts data- and knowledge-driven multi- view clustering methods and incorporates cross-fold validation for robustness . Emphasizing multi-objective evaluation , we applied the Pareto efficiency concept to gauge the equilibrium of evaluation metrics in each cancer case-study .
The development of multicellular organisms requires well-orchestrated interplay between cell-intrinsic transcription factors and cell-cell signaling . One set of highly conserved transcription factors that plays diverse roles in development is the SoxC group . SEM-2 is essential for embryonic development , and for specifying the sex myoblast ( SM ) fate in the postembryonic mesoderm , the M lineage . We have identified a novel partial loss-of-function sem-2 allele that has a proline to serine change in the C-terminal tail of the highly conservedescribed DNA-binding domain . Detailed analyses of mutant animals harboring this point mutation uncovered new functions of SEM-1 in the M linesage and for the proliferation and diversification of the SM lineage lineages . Furthermore , our work identified new interactions in the gene regulatory network ( GRN ) underlying nematode development and adds to the general understanding of the structure-function relationship of Sox proteins .
